Title:NAFTA Preamble -- 1993
Author: White House
Document-Date: 29 Sept 1993
Content-Type: text/plain; CHARSET=US-ASCII
Content-Length:2175
 
                                        PREAMBLE 
 
            The Government of Canada, the Government of the United Mexican 
            States and the Government of the United States of America, 
            resolved to: 
 
                 STRENGTHEN the special bonds of friendship and cooperation 
                 among their nations; 
 
                 CONTRIBUTE to the harmonious development and expansion of 
                 world trade and provide a catalyst to broader 
                 international cooperation; 
 
                 CREATE an expanded and secure market for the goods and 
                 services produced in their territories; 
 
                 REDUCE distortions to trade; 
 
                 ESTABLISH clear and mutually advantageous rules governing 
                 their trade; 
 
                 ENSURE a predictable commercial framework for business 
                 planning and investment; 
 
                 BUILD on their respective rights and obligations under the 
                 General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade and other 
                 multilateral and bilateral instruments of cooperation; 
 
                 ENHANCE the competitiveness of their firms in global 
                 markets; 
 
                 FOSTER creativity and innovation, and promote trade in 
                 goods and services that are the subject of intellectual 
                 property rights; 
 
                 CREATE new employment opportunities and improve working 
                 conditions and living standards in their respective 
                 territories; 
 
                 UNDERTAKE each of the preceding in a manner consistent 
                 with environmental protection and conservation; 
 
                 PRESERVE their flexibility to safeguard the public 
                 welfare; 
 
                 PROMOTE sustainable development; 
 
                 STRENGTHEN the development and enforcement of 
                 environmental laws and regulations; and 
 
                 PROTECT, enhance and enforce basic workers' rights; 
 
            HAVE AGREED as follows:  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Title:General Part -- Chapter 1, 
Author: White House
Document-Date: 29 Sept 1993
Content-Type: text/plain; CHARSET=US-ASCII
Content-Length:

                                        PART ONE 
                                      GENERAL PART 
 
                                      Chapter One 
 
                                       Objectives 
 
 
            Article 101:   Establishment of the Free Trade Area 
 
                 The Parties to this Agreement, consistent with Article 
            XXIV of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, hereby 
            establish a free trade area. 
 
 
            Article 102:   Objectives 
 
            1.   The objectives of this Agreement, as elaborated more 
            specifically through its principles and rules, including 
            national treatment, most-favored-nation treatment and 
            transparency, are to: 
 
                 (a)  eliminate barriers to trade in, and facilitate the 
                      cross-border movement of, goods and services between 
                      the territories of the Parties; 
 
                 (b)  promote conditions of fair competition in the free 
                      trade area; 
 
                 (c)  increase substantially investment opportunities in 
                      the territories of the Parties; 
 
                 (d)  provide adequate and effective protection and 
                      enforcement of intellectual property rights in each 
                      Party's territory; 
 
                 (e)  create effective procedures for the implementation 
                      and application of this Agreement, for its joint 
                      administration and for the resolution of disputes; 
                      and 
 
                 (f)  establish a framework for further trilateral, 
                      regional and multilateral cooperation to expand and 
                      enhance the benefits of this Agreement. 
 
            2.   The Parties shall interpret and apply the provisions of 
            this Agreement in the light of its objectives set out in 
            paragraph 1 and in accordance with applicable rules of 
            international law. 
 
 
            Article 103:   Relation to Other Agreements 
 
            1.   The Parties affirm their existing rights and obligations 
            with respect to each other under the General Agreement on 
            Tariffs and Trade and other agreements to which such Parties 
            are party. 
 
            2.   In the event of any inconsistency between this Agreement 
            and such other agreements, this Agreement shall prevail to the 
            extent of the inconsistency, except as otherwise provided in 
            this Agreement. 
 
 
            Article 104:   Relation to Environmental and Conservation 
                           Agreements 
 
            1.   In the event of any inconsistency between this Agreement 
            and the specific trade obligations set out in: 
 
                 (a)  the Convention on International Trade in Endangered 
                      Species of Wild Fauna and Flora, done at Washington, 
                      March 3, 1973, as amended June 22, 1979, 
 
                 (b)  the Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete the 
                      Ozone Layer, done at Montreal, September 16, 1987, as 
                      amended June 29, 1990,  
 
                 (c)  the Basel Convention on the Control of Transboundary 
                      Movements of Hazardous Wastes and Their Disposal, 
                      done at Basel, March 22, 1989, on its entry into 
                      force for Canada, Mexico and the United States, or  
 
                 (d)  the agreements set out in Annex 104.1, 
 
            such obligations shall prevail to the extent of the 
            inconsistency, provided that where a Party has a choice among 
            equally effective and reasonably available means of complying 
            with such obligations, the Party chooses the alternative that 
            is the least inconsistent with the other provisions of this 
            Agreement. 
 
            2.   The Parties may agree in writing to modify Annex 104.1 to 
            include any amendment to an agreement referred to in paragraph 
            1, and any other environmental or conservation agreement. 
 
 
            Article 105:   Extent of Obligations 
 
                 The Parties shall ensure that all necessary measures are 
            taken in order to give effect to the provisions of this 
            Agreement, including their observance, except as otherwise 
 
            provided in this Agreement, by state and provincial 
            governments. 
 
  
 
                                      Annex 104.1 
 
             Bilateral and Other Environmental and Conservation Agreements 
 
 
            1.   The Agreement Between the Government of Canada and the 
            Government of the United States of America Concerning the 
            Transboundary Movement of Hazardous Waste, signed at Ottawa, 
            October 28, 1986. 
 
            2.   The Agreement Between the United States of America and the 
            United Mexican States on Cooperation for the Protection and 
            Improvement of the Environment in the Border Area, signed at 
            La Paz, Baja California Sur, August 14, 1983. 
  Title:General Definitions -- Chapter 2
Author: White House
Document-Date: 29 Sept 1993
Content-Type: text/plain; CHARSET=US-ASCII
Content-Length:7419
 
                                      Chapter Two 
 
                                  General Definitions 
 
 
            Article 201:  Definitions of General Application 
 
            1.   For purposes of this Agreement, unless otherwise 
            specified: 
 
            Commission means the Free Trade Commission established under 
            Article 2001(1) (The Free Trade Commission); 
 
            Customs Valuation Code means the Agreement on Implementation of 
            Article VII of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, 
            including its interpretative notes; 
 
            days means calendar days, including weekends and holidays; 
 
            enterprise means any entity constituted or organized under 
            applicable law, whether or not for profit, and whether 
            privately-owned or governmentally-owned, including any 
            corporation, trust, partnership, sole proprietorship, joint 
            venture or other association; 
 
            enterprise of a Party means an enterprise constituted or 
            organized under the law of a Party; 
 
            existing means in effect on the date of entry into force of 
            this Agreement; 
 
            Generally Accepted Accounting Principles means the recognized 
            consensus or substantial authoritative support in the territory 
            of a Party with respect to the recording of revenues, expenses, 
            costs, assets and liabilities, disclosure of information and 
            preparation of financial statements.  These standards may be 
            broad guidelines of general application as well as detailed 
            standards, practices and procedures; 
 
            goods of a Party means domestic products as these are 
            understood in the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade or 
            such goods as the Parties may agree, and includes originating 
            goods of that Party; 
 
            Harmonized System (HS) means the Harmonized Commodity 
            Description and Coding System, and its legal notes, as adopted 
            and implemented by the Parties in their respective tariff laws; 
 
            measure includes any law, regulation, procedure, requirement or 
            practice; 
 
            national means a natural person who is a citizen or permanent 
            resident of a Party and any other natural person referred to in 
            Annex 201.1; 
 
            originating means qualifying under the rules of origin set out 
            in Chapter Four (Rules of Origin); 
 
            person means a natural person or an enterprise;  
 
            person of a Party means a national, or an enterprise of a 
            Party;  
 
            Secretariat means the Secretariat established under Article 
            2002(1) (The Secretariat); 
 
            state enterprise means an enterprise that is owned, or 
            controlled through ownership interests, by a Party; and 
 
            territory means for a Party the territory of that Party as set 
            out in Annex 201.1. 
 
            2.   For purposes of this Agreement, unless otherwise 
            specified, a reference to a state or province includes local 
            governments of that state or province. 
 

 
                                      Annex 201.1 
 
                              Country-Specific Definitions 
 
 
            For purposes of this Agreement, unless otherwise specified: 
 
            national also includes: 
 
                 (a)  with respect to Mexico, a national or a citizen 
                      according to Articles 30 and 34, respectively, of the 
                      Mexican Constitution; and 
 
                 (b)  with respect to the United States, "national of the 
                      United States" as defined in the existing provisions 
                      of the Immigration and Nationality Act; 
 
            territory means: 
 
                 (a)  with respect to Canada, the territory to which its 
                      customs laws apply, including any areas beyond the 
                      territorial seas of Canada within which, in 
                      accordance with international law and its domestic 
                      law, Canada may exercise rights with respect to the 
                      seabed and subsoil and their natural resources; 
 
                 (b)  with respect to Mexico, 
 
                      (i)  the states of the Federation and the Federal 
                           District, 
 
                      (ii) the islands, including the reefs and keys, in 
                           adjacent seas, 
 
                      (iii)     the islands of Guadalupe and Revillagigedo 
                                situated in the Pacific Ocean, 
 
                      (iv) the continental shelf and the submarine shelf of 
                           such islands, keys and reefs, 
 
                      (v)  the waters of the territorial seas, in 
                           accordance with international law, and its 
                           interior maritime waters, 
 
                      (vi) the space located above the national territory, 
                           in accordance with international law, and 
 

                                        Annex 201.1                         
                    
 
                      (vii)     any areas beyond the territorial seas of 
                                Mexico within which, in accordance with 
                                international law, including the United 
                                Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, 
                                and its domestic law, Mexico may exercise 
                                rights with respect to the seabed and 
                                subsoil and their natural resources; and 
 
                 (c)  with respect to the United States, 
 
                      (i)  the customs territory of the United States, 
                           which includes the 50 states, the District of 
                           Columbia and Puerto Rico, 
 
                      (ii) the foreign trade zones located in the United 
                           States and Puerto Rico, and 
 
                      (iii)     any areas beyond the territorial seas of 
                                the United States within which, in 
                                accordance with international law and its 
                                domestic law, the United States may 
                                exercise rights with respect to the seabed 
                                and subsoil and their natural resources. 
 
Title:Part Two Trade In Goods -- Chapter 3
Author: White House
Document-Date: 29 Sept 1993
Content-Type: text/plain; CHARSET=US-ASCII
Content-Length:151278
 
 
                                        PART TWO 
                                     TRADE IN GOODS 
 
                                     Chapter Three 
 
                     National Treatment and Market Access for Goods 
 
 
            Article 300:   Scope and Coverage 
 
                 This Chapter applies to trade in goods of a Party, 
            including: 
 
                 (a)  goods covered by Annex 300-A (Trade and Investment in 
                      the Automotive Sector), 
 
                 (b)  goods covered by Annex 300-B (Textile and Apparel 
                      Goods), and 
 
                 (c)  goods covered by another Chapter in this Part, 
 
            except as provided in such Annex or Chapter. 
 
 
                             Section A - National Treatment 
 
 
            Article 301:   National Treatment 
 
            1.   Each Party shall accord national treatment to the goods of 
            another Party in accordance with Article III of the General 
            Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT), including its 
            interpretative notes, and to this end Article III of the GATT 
            and its interpretative notes, or any equivalent provision of a 
            successor agreement to which all Parties are party, are 
            incorporated into and made part of this Agreement. 
 
            2.   The provisions of paragraph 1 regarding national treatment 
            shall mean, with respect to a state or province, treatment no 
            less favorable than the most favorable treatment accorded by 
            such state or province to any like, directly competitive or 
            substitutable goods, as the case may be, of the Party of which 
            it forms a part. 
 
            3.   Paragraphs 1 and 2 do not apply to the measures set out in 
            Annex 301.3. 
 
                                  Section B - Tariffs 

            Article 302:   Tariff Elimination 
 
            1.   Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, no Party 
            may increase any existing customs duty, or adopt any customs 
            duty, on an originating good. 
 
            2.   Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, each Party 
            shall progressively eliminate its customs duties on originating 
            goods in accordance with its Schedule to Annex 302.2. 
 
            3.   On the request of any Party, the Parties shall consult to 
            consider accelerating the elimination of customs duties set out 
            in their Schedules.  An agreement between two or more Parties 
            to accelerate the elimination of a customs duty on a good shall 
            supersede any duty rate or staging category determined pursuant 
            to their Schedules for such good when approved by each such 
            Party in accordance with its applicable legal procedures. 
 
            4.   Each Party may adopt or maintain import measures to 
            allocate in-quota imports made pursuant to a tariff rate quota 
            set out in Annex 302.2, provided that such measures do not have 
            trade restrictive effects on imports additional to those caused 
            by the imposition of the tariff rate quota. 
 
            5.   On written request of any Party, a Party applying or 
            intending to apply measures pursuant to paragraph 4 shall 
            consult to review the administration of those measures. 
 
 
            Article 303:   Restriction on Drawback and Duty Deferral 
                           Programs 
 
            1.   Except as otherwise provided in this Article, no Party may 
            refund the amount of customs duties paid, or waive or reduce 
            the amount of customs duties owed, on a good imported into its 
            territory, on condition that the good is: 
 
                 (a)  subsequently exported to the territory of another 
                      Party, 
 
                 (b)  used as a material in the production of another good 
                      that is subsequently exported to the territory of 
                      another Party, or 
 
                 (c)  substituted by an identical or similar good used as a 
                      material in the production of another good that is 
                      subsequently exported to the territory of another 
                      Party, 
 
            in an amount that exceeds the lesser of the total amount of 
            customs duties paid or owed on the good on importation into its 
            territory and the total amount of customs duties paid to 
            another Party on the good that has been subsequently exported 
            to the territory of that other Party. 
 
            2.   No Party may, on condition of export, refund, waive or 
            reduce: 
 
                 (a)  an antidumping or countervailing duty that is applied 
                      pursuant to a Party's domestic law and that is not 
                      applied inconsistently with Chapter Nineteen (Review 
                      and Dispute Settlement in Antidumping and 
                      Countervailing Duty Matters); 
 
                 (b)  a premium offered or collected on an imported good 
                      arising out of any tendering system in respect of the 
                      administration of quantitative import restrictions, 
                      tariff rate quotas or tariff preference levels; 
 
                 (c)  a fee applied pursuant to section 22 of the U.S. 
                      Agricultural Adjustment Act, subject to Chapter Seven 
                      (Agriculture and Sanitary and Phytosanitary 
                      Measures); or 
 
                 (d)  customs duties paid or owed on a good imported into 
                      its territory and substituted by an identical or 
                      similar good that is subsequently exported to the 
                      territory of another Party. 
 
            3.   Where a good is imported into the territory of a Party 
            pursuant to a duty deferral program and is subsequently 
            exported to the territory of another Party, or is used as a 
            material in the production of another good that is subsequently 
            exported to the territory of another Party, or is substituted 
            by an identical or similar good used as a material in the 
            production of another good that is subsequently exported to the 
            territory of another Party, the Party from whose territory the 
            good is exported: 
 
                 (a)  shall assess the customs duties as if the exported 
                      good had been withdrawn for domestic consumption; and 
 
                 (b)  may waive or reduce such customs duties to the extent 
                      permitted under paragraph 1. 
 
            4.   In determining the amount of customs duties that may be 
            refunded, waived or reduced pursuant to paragraph 1 on a good 
            imported into its territory, each Party shall require 
            presentation of satisfactory evidence of the amount of customs 
            duties paid to another Party on the good that has been 
            subsequently exported to the territory of that other Party. 
 
            5.   Where satisfactory evidence of the customs duties paid to 
            the Party to which a good is subsequently exported under a duty 
            deferral program described in paragraph 3 is not presented 
            within 60 days after the date of exportation, the Party from 
            whose territory the good was exported: 
 
                 (a)  shall collect customs duties as if the exported good 
                      had been withdrawn for domestic consumption; and 
 
                 (b)  may refund such customs duties to the extent 
                      permitted under paragraph 1 on the timely 
                      presentation of such evidence under its laws and 
                      regulations. 
 
            6.   This Article does not apply to: 
 
                 (a)  a good entered under bond for transportation and 
                      exportation to the territory of another Party; 
 
                 (b)  a good exported to the territory of another Party in 
                      the same condition as when imported into the 
                      territory of the Party from which the good was 
                      exported (processes such as testing, cleaning, 
                      repacking or inspecting the good, or preserving it in 
                      its same condition, shall not be considered to change 
                      a good's condition).  Except as provided in Annex 
                      703.2, Section A, paragraph 12, where such a good has 
                      been commingled with fungible goods and exported in 
                      the same condition, its origin for purposes of this 
                      subparagraph, may be determined on the basis of the 
                      inventory methods provided for in the Uniform 
                      Regulations established under Article 511 (Uniform 
                      Regulations); 
 
                 (c)  a good imported into the territory of a Party that is 
                      deemed to be exported from its territory, or used as 
                      a material in the production of another good that is 
                      deemed to be exported to the territory of another 
                      Party, or is substituted by an identical or similar 
                      good used as a material in the production of another 
                      good that is deemed to be exported to the territory 
                      of another Party, by reason of 
 
                      (i)  delivery to a duty-free shop, 
 
                      (ii) delivery for ship's stores or supplies for ships 
                           or aircraft, or 
 
                      (iii)     delivery for use in joint undertakings of 
                                two or more of the Parties and that will 
                                subsequently become the property of the 
                                Party into whose territory the good was 
                                imported; 
 
                 (d)  a refund of customs duties by a Party on a particular 
                      good imported into its territory and subsequently 
                      exported to the territory of another Party, where 
                      that refund is granted by reason of the failure of 
                      such good to conform to sample or specification, or 
                      by reason of the shipment of such good without the 
                      consent of the consignee; 
 
                 (e)  an originating good that is imported into the 
                      territory of a Party and is subsequently exported to 
                      the territory of another Party, or used as a material 
                      in the production of another good that is 
                      subsequently exported to the territory of another 
                      Party, or is substituted by an identical or similar 
                      good used as a material in the production of another 
                      good that is subsequently exported to the territory 
                      of another Party; or 
 
                 (f)  a good set out in Annex 303.6. 
 
            7.   Except for paragraph 2(d), this Article shall apply as of 
            the date set out in each Party's Section of Annex 303.7. 
 
            8.   Notwithstanding any other provision of this Article and 
            except as specifically provided in Annex 303.8, no Party may 
            refund the amount of customs duties paid, or waive or reduce 
            the amount of customs duties owed, on a non-originating good 
            provided for in item 8540.11.aa (color cathode-ray television 
            picture tubes, including video monitor tubes, with a diagonal 
            exceeding 14 inches) or 8540.11.cc (color cathode-ray 
            television picture tubes for high definition television, with a 
            diagonal exceeding 14 inches) that is imported into the Party's 
            territory and subsequently exported to the territory of another 
            Party, or is used as a material in the production of another 
            good that is subsequently exported to the territory of another 
            Party, or is substituted by an identical or similar good used 
            as a material in the production of another good that is 
            subsequently exported to the territory of another Party. 
 
            9.   For purposes of this Article: 
 
            customs duties are the customs duties that would be applicable 
            to a good entered for consumption in the customs territory of a 
            Party if the good were not exported to the territory of another 
            party; 
 
            identical or similar goods means "identical or similar goods" 
            as defined in Article 415 (Rules of Origin - Definitions); 
 
            material means "material" as defined in Article 415;  
 
            used means "used" as defined in Article 415; and 
            where a good referred to by a tariff item number in this 
            Article is described in parentheses following the tariff item 
            number, the description is provided for purposes of reference 
            only. 
 
 
            Article 304:   Waiver of Customs Duties 
 
            1.   Except as set out in Annex 304.1, no Party may adopt any 
            new waiver of customs duties, or expand with respect to 
            existing recipients or extend to any new recipient the 
            application of an existing waiver of customs duties, where the 
            waiver is conditioned, explicitly or implicitly, on the 
            fulfillment of a performance requirement. 
 
            2.   Except as set out in Annex 304.2, no Party may, explicitly 
            or implicitly, condition on the fulfillment of a performance 
            requirement the continuation of any existing waiver of customs 
            duties. 
 
            3.   If a waiver or a combination of waivers of customs duties 
            granted by a Party with respect to goods for commercial use by 
            a designated person can be shown by another Party to have an 
            adverse impact on the commercial interests of a person of that 
            Party, or of a person owned or controlled by a person of that 
            Party that is located in the territory of the Party granting 
            the waiver, or on the other Party's economy, the Party granting 
            the waiver shall either cease to grant it or make it generally 
            available to any importer. 
 
            4.   This Article shall not apply to measures subject to 
            Article 303. 
 
 
            Article 305:   Temporary Admission of Goods 
 
            1.   Each Party shall grant duty-free temporary admission for: 
 
                 (a)  professional equipment necessary for carrying out the 
                      business activity, trade or profession of a business 
                      person who qualifies for temporary entry pursuant to 
                      Chapter Sixteen (Temporary Entry for Business 
                      Persons), 
 
                 (b)  equipment for the press or for sound or television 
                      broadcasting and cinematographic equipment, 
 
                 (c)  goods imported for sports purposes and goods intended 
                      for display or demonstration, and 
 
                 (d)  commercial samples and advertising films, 
 
            imported from the territory of another Party, regardless of 
            their origin and regardless of whether like, directly 
            competitive or substitutable goods are available in the 
            territory of the Party. 
 
            2.   Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, no Party 
            may condition the duty-free temporary admission of a good 
            referred to in paragraph 1(a), (b) or (c), other than to 
            require that such good: 
 
                 (a)  be imported by a national or resident of another 
                      Party who seeks temporary entry; 
 
                 (b)  be used solely by or under the personal supervision 
                      of such person in the exercise of the business 
                      activity, trade or profession of that person; 
 
                 (c)  not be sold or leased while in its territory; 
 
                 (d)  be accompanied by a bond in an amount no greater than 
                      110 percent of the charges that would otherwise be 
                      owed on entry or final importation, or by another 
                      form of security, releasable on exportation of the 
                      good, except that a bond for customs duties shall not 
                      be required for an originating good; 
 
                 (e)  be capable of identification when exported; 
 
                 (f)  be exported on the departure of that person or within 
                      such other period of time as is reasonably related to 
                      the purpose of the temporary admission; and 
 
                 (g)  be imported in no greater quantity than is reasonable 
                      for its intended use. 
 
            3.   Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, no Party 
            may condition the duty-free temporary admission of a good 
            referred to in paragraph 1(d), other than to require that such 
            good: 
 
                 (a)  be imported solely for the solicitation of orders for 
                      goods, or services provided from the territory, of 
                      another Party or non-Party; 
 
                 (b)  not be sold, leased or put to any use other than 
                      exhibition or demonstration while in its territory; 
 
                 (c)  be capable of identification when exported; 
 
                 (d)  be exported within such period as is reasonably 
                      related to the purpose of the temporary admission; 
                      and 
 
                 (e)  be imported in no greater quantity than is reasonable 
                      for its intended use. 
 
            4.   A Party may impose the customs duty and any other charge 
            on a good temporarily admitted duty-free under paragraph 1 that 
            would be owed on entry or final importation of such good if any 
            condition that the Party imposes under paragraph 2 or 3 has not 
            been fulfilled. 
 
            5.   Subject to Chapters Eleven (Investment) and Twelve (Cross- 
            Border Trade in Services): 
 
                 (a)  each Party shall allow a vehicle or container used in 
                      international traffic that enters its territory from 
                      the territory of another Party to exit its territory 
                      on any route that is reasonably related to the 
                      economic and prompt departure of such vehicle or 
                      container; 
 
                 (b)  no Party may require any bond or impose any penalty 
                      or charge solely by reason of any difference between 
                      the port of entry and the port of departure of a 
                      vehicle or container; 
 
                 (c)  no Party may condition the release of any obligation, 
                      including any bond, that it imposes in respect of the 
                      entry of a vehicle or container into its territory on 
                      its exit through any particular port of departure; 
                      and 
 
                 (d)  no Party may require that the vehicle or carrier 
                      bringing a container from the territory of another 
                      Party into its territory be the same vehicle or 
                      carrier that takes such container to the territory of 
                      another Party. 
 
            6.   For purposes of paragraph 5, "vehicle" means a truck, a 
            truck tractor, tractor, trailer unit or trailer, a locomotive, 
            or a railway car or other railroad equipment. 
 
 
            Article 306:   Duty-Free Entry of Certain Commercial Samples 
                           and Printed Advertising Materials 
 
                 Each Party shall grant duty-free entry to commercial 
            samples of negligible value, and to printed advertising 
            materials, imported from the territory of another Party, 
            regardless of their origin, but may require that: 
 
                 (a)  such samples be imported solely for the solicitation 
                      of orders for goods, or services provided from the 
                      territory, of another Party or non-Party; or 
 
                 (b)  such advertising materials be imported in packets 
                      that each contain no more than one copy of each such 
                      material and that neither such materials nor packets 
                      form part of a larger consignment. 
 
 
            Article 307:   Goods Re-Entered after Repair or Alteration 
 
            1.   Except as set out in Annex 307.1, no Party may apply a 
            customs duty to a good, regardless of its origin, that re- 
            enters its territory after that good has been exported from its 
            territory to the territory of another Party for repair or 
            alteration, regardless of whether such repair or alteration 
            could be performed in its territory. 
 
            2.   Notwithstanding Article 303, no Party may apply a customs 
            duty to a good, regardless of its origin, imported temporarily 
            from the territory of another Party for repair or alteration. 
 
            3.   Annex 307.3 applies to the Parties specified in that Annex 
            respecting the repair and rebuilding of vessels. 
 
 
            Article 308:   Most-Favored-Nation Rates of Duty on Certain 
                           Goods 
 
            1.   Annex 308.1 applies to certain automatic data processing 
            goods and their parts. 
 
            2.   Annex 308.2 applies to certain color television tubes. 
 
            3.   Each Party shall accord most-favored-nation duty-free 
            treatment to any local area network apparatus imported into its 
            territory, and shall consult in accordance with Annex 308.3. 
 
 
                            Section  C - Non-Tariff Measures 
 
            Article 309:   Import and Export Restrictions 
 
            1.   Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, no Party 
            may adopt or maintain any prohibition or restriction on the 
            importation of any good of another Party or on the exportation 
            or sale for export of any good destined for the territory of 
            another Party, except in accordance with Article XI of the 
            GATT, including its interpretative notes, and to this end 
            Article XI of the GATT and its interpretative notes, or any 
            equivalent provision of a successor agreement to which all 
            Parties are party, are incorporated into and made a part of 
            this Agreement. 
 
            2.   The Parties understand that the GATT rights and 
            obligations incorporated by paragraph 1 prohibit, in any 
            circumstances in which any other form of restriction is 
            prohibited, export price requirements and, except as permitted 
            in enforcement of countervailing and antidumping orders and 
            undertakings, import price requirements. 
 
            3.   In the event that a Party adopts or maintains a 
            prohibition or restriction on the importation from or 
            exportation to a non-Party of a good, nothing in this Agreement 
            shall be construed to prevent the Party from: 
 
                 (a)  limiting or prohibiting the importation from the 
                      territory of another Party of such good of that non- 
                      Party; or 
 
                 (b)  requiring as a condition of export of such good of 
                      the Party to the territory of another Party, that the 
                      good not be re-exported to the non-Party, directly or 
                      indirectly, without being consumed in the territory 
                      of the other Party. 
 
            4.   In the event that a Party adopts or maintains a 
            prohibition or restriction on the importation of a good from a 
            non-Party, the Parties, on request of any Party, shall consult 
            with a view to avoiding undue interference with or distortion 
            of pricing, marketing and distribution arrangements in another 
            Party. 
 
            5.   Paragraphs 1 through 4 shall not apply to the measures set 
            out in Annex 301.3. 
 
 
            Article 310:   Customs User Fees 
 
            1.   No Party may adopt any customs user fee of the type 
            referred to in Annex 310.1 for originating goods. 
 
            2.   The Parties specified in Annex 310.1 may maintain existing 
            such fees in accordance with that Annex. 
 
            Article 311:   Country of Origin Marking 
 
                 Annex 311 applies to measures relating to country of 
            origin marking. 
 
 
            Article 312:   Wine and Distilled Spirits 
 
            1.   No Party may adopt or maintain any measure requiring that 
            distilled spirits imported from the territory of another Party 
            for bottling be blended with any distilled spirits of the 
            Party. 
 
            2.   Annex 312.2 applies to other measures relating to wine and 
            distilled spirits. 
 
 
            Article 313:   Distinctive Products 
 
                 Annex 313 applies to standards and labelling of the 
            distinctive products set out in that Annex. 
 
 
            Article 314:   Export Taxes 
 
                 Except as set out in Annex 314, no Party may adopt or 
            maintain any duty, tax or other charge on the export of any 
            good to the territory of another Party, unless such duty, tax 
            or charge is adopted or maintained on: 
 
                 (a)  exports of any such good to the territory of all 
                      other Parties; and 
 
                 (b)  any such good when destined for domestic consumption. 
 
 
            Article 315:   Other Export Measures 
 
            1.   Except as set out in Annex 315, a Party may adopt or 
            maintain a restriction otherwise justified under Articles 
            XI:2(a) or XX(g), (i) or (j) of the GATT with respect to the 
            export of a good of the Party to the territory of another 
            Party, only if: 
 
                 (a)  the restriction does not reduce the proportion of the 
                      total export shipments of the specific good made 
                      available to that other Party relative to the total 
                      supply of that good of the Party maintaining the 
                      restriction as compared to the proportion prevailing 
                      in the most recent 36-month period for which data are 
                      available prior to the imposition of the measure, or 
                      in such other representative period on which the 
                      Parties may agree; 
 
                 (b)  the Party does not impose a higher price for exports 
                      of a good to that other Party than the price charged 
                      for such good when consumed domestically, by means of 
                      any measure, such as licenses, fees, taxation and 
                      minimum price requirements.  The foregoing provision 
                      does not apply to a higher price that may result from 
                      a measure taken pursuant to subparagraph (a) that 
                      only restricts the volume of exports; and 
 
                 (c)  the restriction does not require the disruption of 
                      normal channels of supply to that other Party or 
                      normal proportions among specific goods or categories 
                      of goods supplied to that other Party. 
 
            2.   The Parties shall cooperate in the maintenance and 
            development of effective controls on the export of each other's 
            goods to a non-Party in implementing this Article. 
 
 
                              Section D  -  Consultations 
 
 
            Article 316:   Consultations and Committee on Trade in Goods 
 
            1.   The Parties hereby establish a Committee on Trade in 
            Goods, comprising representatives of each Party. 
 
            2.   The Committee shall meet on the request of any Party or 
            the Commission to consider any matter arising under this 
            Chapter. 
 
            3.   The Parties shall convene at least once each year a 
            meeting of their officials responsible for customs, 
            immigration, inspection of food and agricultural products, 
            border inspection facilities, and regulation of transportation 
            for the purpose of addressing issues related to movement of 
            goods through the Parties' ports of entry. 
 
 
            Article 317:   Third-Country Dumping 
 
            1.   The Parties affirm the importance of cooperation with 
            respect to actions under Article 12 of the Agreement on 
            Implementation of Article VI of the General Agreement on 
            Tariffs and Trade. 
 
            2.   Where a Party presents an application to another Party 
            requesting antidumping action on its behalf, those Parties 
            shall consult within 30 days respecting the factual basis of 
            the request, and the requested Party shall give full 
            consideration to the request. 
 
 
                                Section E - Definitions 
 
 
            Article 318:   Definitions 
 
            For purposes of this Chapter: 
 
            advertising films means recorded visual media, with or without 
            sound-tracks, consisting essentially of images showing the 
            nature or operation of goods or services offered for sale or 
            lease by a person established or resident in the territory of 
            any Party, provided that the films are of a kind suitable for 
            exhibition to prospective customers but not for broadcast to 
            the general public, and provided that they are imported in 
            packets that each contain no more than one copy of each film 
            and that do not form part of a larger consignment; 
 
            commercial samples of negligible value means commercial samples 
            having a value, individually or in the aggregate as shipped, of 
            not more than one U.S. dollar, or the equivalent amount in the 
            currency of another Party, or so marked, torn, perforated or 
            otherwise treated that they are unsuitable for sale or for use 
            except as commercial samples; 
 
            consumed means: 
 
                 (a)  actually consumed; or 
 
                 (b)  further processed or manufactured so as to result in 
                      a substantial change in value, form or use of the 
                      good or in the production of another good; 
 
            customs duty includes any customs or import duty and a charge 
            of any kind imposed in connection with the importation of a 
            good, including any form of surtax or surcharge in connection 
            with such importation, but does not include any: 
 
                 (a)  charge equivalent to an internal tax imposed 
                      consistently with Article III:2 of the GATT, or any 
                      equivalent provision of a successor agreement to 
                      which all Parties are party, in respect of like, 
                      directly competitive or substitutable goods of the 
                      Party, or in respect of goods from which the imported 
                      good has been manufactured or produced in whole or in 
                      part; 
 
                 (b)  antidumping or countervailing duty that is applied 
                      pursuant to a Party's domestic law and not applied 
                      inconsistently with Chapter Nineteen (Review and 
                      Dispute Settlement in Antidumping and Countervailing 
                      Duty Matters); 
 
                 (c)  fee or other charge in connection with importation 
                      commensurate with the cost of services rendered; 
 
                 (d)  premium offered or collected on an imported good 
                      arising out of any tendering system in respect of the 
                      administration of quantitative import restrictions, 
                      tariff rate quotas or tariff preference levels; and 
 
                 (e)  fee applied pursuant to section 22 of the U.S. 
                      Agricultural Adjustment Act, subject to Chapter Seven 
                      (Agriculture and Sanitary and Phytosanitary 
                      Measures); 
 
            distilled spirits include distilled spirits and distilled 
            spirit-containing beverages; 
 
            duty deferral program includes measures such as those governing 
            foreign-trade zones, temporary importations under bond, bonded 
            warehouses, "maquiladoras", and inward processing programs; 
 
            duty-free means free of customs duty; 
 
            goods imported for sports purposes means sports requisites for 
            use in sports contests, demonstrations or training in the 
            territory of the Party into whose territory such goods are 
            imported; 
 
            goods intended for display or demonstration includes their 
            component parts, ancillary apparatus and accessories; 
 
            item means a tariff classification item at the eight- or 10- 
            digit level set out in a Party's tariff schedule; 
 
            local area network apparatus means a good dedicated for use 
            solely or principally to permit the interconnection of 
            automatic data processing machines and units thereof for a 
            network that is used primarily for the sharing of resources 
            such as central processor units, data storage devices and input 
            or output units, including in-line repeaters, converters, 
            concentrators, bridges and routers, and printed circuit 
            assemblies for physical incorporation into automatic data 
            processing machines and units thereof suitable for use solely 
            or principally with a private network, and providing for the 
            transmission, receipt, error-checking, control, signal 
            conversion or correction functions for non-voice data to move 
            through a local area network; 
 
            performance requirement means a requirement that: 
 
                 (a)  a given level or percentage of goods or services be 
                      exported; 
 
                 (b)  domestic goods or services of the Party granting a 
                      waiver of customs duties be substituted for imported 
                      goods or services; 
 
                 (c)  a person benefitting from a waiver of customs duties 
                      purchase other goods or services in the territory of 
                      the Party granting the waiver or accord a preference 
                      to domestically produced goods or services;  
 
                 (d)  a person benefitting from a waiver of customs duties 
                      produce goods or provide services, in the territory 
                      of the Party granting the waiver, with a given level 
                      or percentage of domestic content; or 
 
                 (e)  relates in any way the volume or value of imports to 
                      the volume or value of exports or to the amount of 
                      foreign exchange inflows; 
 
            printed advertising materials means those goods classified in 
            Chapter 49 of the Harmonized System, including brochures, 
            pamphlets, leaflets, trade catalogues, yearbooks published by 
            trade associations, tourist promotional materials and posters, 
            that are used to promote, publicize or advertise a good or 
            service, are essentially intended to advertise a good or 
            service, and are supplied free of charge; 
 
            repair or alteration does not include an operation or process 
            that either destroys the essential characteristics of a good or 
            creates a new or commercially different good; 
 
            satisfactory evidence means: 
 
                 (a)  a receipt, or a copy of a receipt, evidencing payment 
                      of customs duties on a particular entry; 
 
                 (b)  a copy of the entry document with evidence that it 
                      was received by a customs administration; 
 
                 (c)  a copy of a final customs duty determination by a 
                      customs administration respecting the relevant entry; 
                      or 
  
                 (d)  any other evidence of payment of customs duties 
                      acceptable under the Uniform Regulations established 
                      in accordance with Chapter Five (Customs Procedures); 
 
            total export shipments means all shipments from total supply to 
            users located in the territory of another Party; 
 
            total supply means all shipments, whether intended for domestic 
            or foreign users, from: 
 
                 (a)  domestic production; 
 
                 (b)  domestic inventory; and 
 
                 (c)  other imports as appropriate; and 
 
            waiver of customs duties means a measure that waives otherwise 
            applicable customs duties on any good imported from any 
            country, including the territory of another Party. 
 
                                     Annex 301.3 
    
                           Exceptions to Articles 301 and 309 
 
                             Section A - Canadian Measures 
 
 
            1.   Articles 301 and 309 shall not apply to controls by Canada 
            on the export of logs of all species. 
 
            2.   Articles 301 and 309 shall not apply to controls by Canada 
            on the export of unprocessed fish pursuant to the following 
            existing statutes, as amended as of August 12, 1992: 
 
                 (a)  New Brunswick Fish Processing Act, R.S.N.B. c. F- 
                      18.01 (1982), and Fisheries Development Act, S.N.B. 
                      c. F-15.1 (1977); 
 
                 (b)  Newfoundland Fish Inspection Act, R.S.N. 1990, c. F- 
                      12; 
 
                 (c)  Nova Scotia Fisheries Act, S.N.S. 1977, c. 9; 
 
                 (d)  Prince Edward Island Fish Inspection Act, R.S.P.E.I. 
                      1988, c. F-13; and 
 
                 (e)  Quebec Marine Products Processing Act, No. 38, S.Q. 
                      1987, c. 51. 
 
            3.   Articles 301 and 309 shall not apply to: 
 
                 (a)  except as provided in Annex 300-A, Appendix 300-A.1, 
                      paragraph 4, measures by Canada respecting the 
                      importation of any goods enumerated or referred to in 
                      Schedule VII of the Customs Tariff, R.S.C. 1985, c. 
                      41 (3rd Supp.), as amended, 
 
                 (b)  measures by Canada respecting the exportation of 
                      liquor for delivery into any country into which the 
                      importation of liquor is prohibited by law under the 
                      existing provisions of the Export Act, R.S.C. 1985, 
                      c. E-18, as amended, 
 
                 (c)  measures by Canada respecting preferential rates for 
                      certain freight traffic under the existing provisions 
                      of the Maritime Freight Rate Act, R.S.C. 1985, c. M- 
                      1, as amended, 
 
                                    Annex 301.3                             

                 (d)  Canadian excise taxes on absolute alcohol used in 
                      manufacturing under the existing provisions of the 
                      Excise Tax Act, R.S.C. 1985, c. E-15, as amended, and 
 
 
                 (e)  measures by Canada prohibiting the use of foreign or 
                      non-duty paid ships in the coasting trade of Canada 
                      unless granted a license under the Coasting Trade 
                      Act, S.C. 1992, c. 31,   
 
            to the extent that such provisions were mandatory legislation 
            at the time of Canada's accession to the GATT and have not been 
            amended so as to decrease their conformity with the GATT. 
 
            4.   Articles 301 and 309 shall not apply to quantitative 
            import restrictions on goods that originate in the territory of 
            the United States, considering operations performed in, or 
            materials obtained from, Mexico as if they were performed in, 
            or obtained from, a non-Party, and that are indicated by 
            asterisks in Chapter 89 in Annex 401.2 (Tariff Schedule of 
            Canada) of the Canada - United States Free Trade Agreement for 
            as long as the measures taken under the Merchant Marine Act of 
            1920, 46 App. U.S.C.   883, and the Merchant Marine Act of 
            1936, 46 App. U.S.C.    1171, 1176, 1241 and 1241o, apply with 
            quantitative effect to comparable Canadian origin goods sold or 
            offered for sale into the U.S. market. 
 
            5.   Articles 301 and 309 shall not apply to: 
 
                 (a)  the continuation or prompt renewal of a non- 
                      conforming provision of any statute referred to in 
                      paragraph 2 or 3; and 
 
                 (b)  the amendment to a non-conforming provision of any 
                      statute referred to in paragraph 2 or 3 to the extent 
                      that the amendment does not decrease the conformity 
                      of the provision with Articles 301 and 309.  
 
                                    Annex 301.3                             
 
                              Section B - Mexican Measures 
 
 
            1.   Articles 301 and 309 shall not apply to controls by Mexico 
            on the export of logs of all species. 
 
            2.   Articles 301 and 309 shall not apply to: 
 
                 (a)  measures under the existing provisions of Articles 
                      192 through 194 of the General Ways of Communication 
                      Act ("Ley de Vias Generales de Comunicaci n") 
                      reserving exclusively to Mexican vessels all services 
                      and operations not authorized for foreign vessels and 
                      empowering the Mexican Ministry of Communications and 
                      Transportation to deny foreign vessels the right to 
                      perform authorized services if their country of 
                      origin does not grant reciprocal rights to Mexican 
                      vessels; and 
 
                 (b)  export permit measures applied to goods for 
                      exportation to another Party that are subject to 
                      quantitative restrictions or tariff rate quotas 
                      adopted or maintained by that other Party.  
 
            3.   Articles 301 and 309 shall not apply to: 
 
                 (a)  the continuation or prompt renewal of a non- 
                      conforming provision of the statute referred to in 
                      paragraph 2(a); and 
 
                 (b)  the amendment to a non-conforming provision of the 
                      statute referred to in paragraph 2(a) to the extent 
                      that the amendment does not decrease the conformity 
                      of the provision with Articles 301 and 309. 
 
            4.   (a)  Notwithstanding Article 309, for the first 10 years 
                      after the date of entry into force of this Agreement, 
                      Mexico may adopt or maintain prohibitions or 
                      restrictions on the importation of used goods 
                      provided for in the items, as of August 12, 1992, in 
                      the Tariff Schedule of the General Import Duty Act 
                      (Tarifa de la "Ley del Impuesto General de 
                      Importaci n") set out below: 
 
                 (For purposes of reference only, descriptions are provided 
            next to the corresponding item.) 
 
                                     Annex 301.3                            
 
            Item           Description 
 
            8407.34.99          Gasoline engines of more than 1,000 cm3, 
                                except for motorcycles. 
 
            8413.11.01          Distributors fitted with a measuring device 
                                even if it includes a totalizing mechanism. 
 
            8413.40.01          Trailer type, from 36 up to 60 m3/hr 
                                capacity; without hydraulic elevator for 
                                the discharge hose. 
 
            8426.12.01          Mobile portals on tires and straddle 
                                carriers. 
 
            8426.19.01          Other (overhead travelling cranes, bridge 
                                cranes and straddle carriers). 
 
            8426.30.01          Portal cranes. 
 
            8426.41.01          Cranes with structural iron jib (lattice) 
                                with mechanical working, self-propelled, 
                                with unit weight up to 55 tons. 
 
            8426.41.02          Cranes with hydraulically actuated rigid 
                                jib, self-propelled with maximum capacity 
                                above 9.9 tons and not exceeding 30 tons. 
 
            8426.41.99          Other (machinery and apparatus, self 
                                propelled, on tires.) 
 
            8426.49.01          Cranes with structural iron jib (lattice) 
                                with mechanical working, with unit weight 
                                up to 55 tons. 
 
            8426.49.02          Cranes with hydraulically actuated rigid 
                                jib, self-propelled, with load capacity 
                                above 9.9 tons and not exceeding 30 tons. 
 
            8426.91.01          Cranes, other than those provided for in 
                                items 8426.91.02, 8426.91.03 and 
                                8426.91.04. 
 
            8426.91.02          Cranes with hydraulic working, with 
                                articulated or rigid booms, with capacity 
                                up to 9.9 tons at 1 meter radius. 
 
                                      Annex 301.3                           
 
            8426.91.03          Isolated elevating cranes, basket type, 
                                with carrying capacity equal to or less 
                                than 1 ton and up to 15 meters lift. 
 
            8426.91.99          Other (machinery and apparatus; designed 
                                for mounting on road vehicles). 
 
            8426.99.01          Cranes, other than those provided for in 
                                items 8426.91.02 
 
            8426.99.02          Swivel cranes. 
 
            8426.99.99          Other (cranes and air cables ("blondines"); 
                                overhead travelling cranes, handling or 
                                unloading frames, bridge cranes, straddle 
                                carriers and straddle cranes). 
 
            8427.10.01          With load capacity up to 3,500 kilograms, 
                                measured at 620 millimeters from the 
                                frontal surface of the forks, without 
                                battery or loader. 
 
            8427.20.01          With explosion or internal combustion 
                                engine, with carrying capacity up to 7,000 
                                kilograms, measured at 620 millimeters from 
                                the frontal surface of the forks. 
 
            8428.40.99          Other (escalators and moving walkways). 
 
            8428.90.99          Other (machinery and apparatus for lifting, 
                                loading, unloading or handling). 
 
            8429.11.01          Caterpillar type. 
 
            8429.19.01          Other (bulldozers and angledozers). 
 
            8429.20.01          Graders. 
 
            8429.30.01          Scrapers. 
 
            8429.40.01          Tamping machines. 
 
            8429.51.02          Front-end loader with hydraulic working, 
                                wheel-type, with capacity equal or less 
                                than 335 HP. 
 
            8429.51.03          Mechanical shovels, other than those 
                                provided for in item 8429.51.01. 
 
 
                                    Annex 301.3                             
 
            8429.51.99          Other (mechanical shovels, excavators, 
                                loaders and front-end shovel loaders). 
 
            8429.52.02          Draglines or excavators, other than those 
                                provided for in item 8429.52.01. 
 
            8429.52.99          Other (machinery with a 360  revolving 
                                superstructure). 
 
            8429.59.01          Trenchers. 
 
            8429.59.02          Draglines, with dragging load capacity up 
                                to 4,000 kilograms. 
 
            8429.59.03          Draglines or excavators, other than those 
                                provided for in item 8429.59.04. 
 
            8429.59.99          Other (self-propelled bulldozers, 
                                angledozers, graders, scrapers, mechanical 
                                shovels, excavators, loaders, shovel 
                                loaders, tamping machines and road 
                                rollers). 
 
            8430.31.01          Rotation and/or percussion perforators. 
 
            8430.31.99          Other (self-propelled cutters, pullers or 
                                wrenchers and machines to open tunnels or 
                                galleries). 
 
            8430.39.01          Boring shields. 
 
            8430.39.99          Other (not self-propelled cutters, pullers 
                                or wrenchers and machines to open tunnels 
                                or galleries). 
 
            8430.41.01          Boring or sinking machinery, other than 
                                those provided for in item 8430.41.02. 
 
            8430.41.99          Other (self-propelled probing or boring 
                                machinery). 
 
            8430.49.99          Other (not self-propelled probing or boring 
                                machinery). 
 
            8430.50.01          Excavators, frontal carriers with hydraulic 
                                mechanism, with capacity equal to or less 
                                than 335 h.p. 
 
                                   Annex 301.3                              
 
            8430.50.02          Scrapers. 
 
            8430.50.99          Other (self-propelled machinery and 
                                apparatus). 
 
            8430.61.01          Graders (pushers). 
 
            8430.61.02          Tamping or compacting rollers. 
 
            8430.61.99          Other (machinery and apparatus, not self- 
                                propelled). 
 
            8430.62.01          Scarification machine (ripping machine). 
 
            8430.69.01          Scrapers, not self-propelled. 
 
            8430.69.02          Trencher machine, other than those provided 
                                for in item 8430.69.03. 
 
            8430.69.99          Other (trenchers, other than those provided 
                                for in items 8430.69.01, 8430.69.02 and 
                                8430.69.03). 
 
            8452.10.01          Sewing machines of the household type. 
 
            8452.21.04          Industrial machines, other than those 
                                provided for in items 8452.21.02, 
                                8452.21.03 and 8452.21.05. 
 
            8452.21.99          Other (automatic sewing machines). 
 
            8452.29.05          Machines or heads for industrial use, with 
                                straight seams, straight needle and a 
                                rotating and oscillating thread linking 
                                device, double backstitching, flat bed and 
                                transportation only. 
 
            8452.29.06          Industrial machines, other than those 
                                provided for in items 8452.29.01, 
                                8452.29.03 and 8452.29.05. 
 
            8452.29.99          Other (non-automatic sewing machines). 
 
            8452.90.99          Other (parts of sewing machines). 
 
            8471.10.01          Analogue or hybrid automatic data 
                                processing machines. 
 
 
                                  Annex 301.3                               
 
            8471.20.01          Digital or numerical automatic data 
                                processing machines, containing in the same 
                                housing at least a central processing unit 
                                and an input and output unit. 
 
            8471.91.01          Numerical or digital processing units, even 
                                if presented with the rest of the system, 
                                including one or two of the following types 
                                of units contained in the same housing:  
                                storage units, input units, output unit. 
 
            8471.92.99          Other (input or output units whether or not 
                                entered with the rest of a system and 
                                whether or not containing storage units in 
                                the same housing). 
 
            8471.93.01          Storage units, including the rest of the 
                                system. 
 
            8471.99.01          Other (automatic data processing machines 
                                and units thereof). 
 
            8474.20.01          Crushing and grinding with two or more 
                                cylinders. 
 
            8474.20.02          Crushing jawbone and grinding millstone. 
 
            8474.20.03          Blade crushing machines. 
 
            8474.20.04          Crushing machines of balls or bars. 
 
            8474.20.05          Drawer cone crushing, with diameter no more 
                                than 1200 millimeters. 
 
            8474.20.06          Grinding hammer percussion. 
 
            8474.20.99          Other (machines and apparatus to break, 
                                crush or grind or pulverize dirt, stones 
                                and other solid mineral materials). 
 
            8474.39.99          Other (mixing machines). 
 
            8474.80.99          Other (machines and apparatus to classify, 
                                sieve, separate, break, crush, grind, mix, 
                                or knead dirt, stones and other mineral 
                                materials). 
 
            8475.10.01          Machines for assembling lamps. 
 
                                Annex 301.3                                 
 
            8477.10.01          Injection-molding machines for 
                                thermoplastic materials, up to 5 kg 
                                capacity for one molding model. 
 
            8701.30.01          Caterpillar tractors with an engine power 
                                at the flywheel equal to or above 105 h.p., 
                                but less than 380 h.p. measured at 1,900 
                                rpm, including pushing blade. 
 
            8701.90.02          Railroad tractors, on tires with mechanical 
                                mechanism for pavement. 
 
            8711.10.01          Motorcycles fitted with an auxiliary motor 
                                with reciprocating piston engine not 
                                exceeding 50 cm3. 
 
            8711.20.01          Motorcycles fitted with an auxiliary motor 
                                with reciprocating piston engine over 50 
                                cm3 but not over 250 cm3. 
 
            8711.30.01          Motorcycles fitted with an auxiliary motor 
                                with reciprocating piston engine over 250 
                                cm3 but not over 500 cm3. 
 
            8711.40.01          Motorcycles fitted with an auxiliary motor 
                                with reciprocating piston engine over 500 
                                cm3 but less than 550 cm3. 
 
            8711.90.99          Other (motorcycles, cycles fitted with an 
                                auxiliary motor and sidecars without a 
                                reciprocating piston engine, and that are 
                                not sidecars for motorcycles and 
                                velocipedes of any kind presented 
                                separately). 
 
            8712.00.02          Bicycles, other than of the type for 
                                racing. 
 
            8712.00.99          Other (cycles, not motorized, except 
                                bicycles, and tricycles for the transport 
                                of merchandise). 
 
            8716.10.01          Trailers and semi-trailers for housing and 
                                camping, of the caravan type. 
 
            8716.31.02          Steel-tank type tankers, including 
                                cryogenic or hoppers. 
 
                              Annex 301.3                                   

            8716.31.99          Other (tankers except of the steel-tank 
                                type, and of the thermal type for the 
                                transportation of milk). 
 
            8716.39.01          Trailers or semi-trailers of the platform 
                                type, with or without stakes, including 
                                those accepted for the transport of boxes 
                                or metal baskets for cans and bottles or 
                                container carriers, or low beds, except 
                                those with hydraulic or pneumatic 
                                suspension and collapsible goose-neck.  
 
            8716.39.02          Trailers or semi-trailers for the transport 
                                of vehicles. 
 
            8716.39.04          Trailers of the modular-platform type with 
                                directional axis, including transporter 
                                bridge section, hydraulic couplings or 
                                goose-neck or motor for hydraulic 
                                conditioning of the equipment. 
 
            8716.39.05          Semi-trailers of the low-bed type, with 
                                pneumatic or hydraulic suspension and 
                                collapsible goose-neck. 
 
            8716.39.06          Trailers and semi-trailers of the 
                                closed-box type, including refrigerated. 
 
            8716.39.07          Trailers and semi-trailers of the steel- 
                                tank type, including cryogenic and hoppers. 
 
            8716.39.99          Other (trailers and semi-trailers for the 
                                transportation of goods, other than those 
                                provided for in items 8716.39.01, 
                                8716.39.02, 8716.39.04, 8716.39.05, 
                                8716.39.06 and 8716.39.07, and that are not 
                                vehicles for the transport of goods, with 
                                solid rubber wheels, nor double-decker 
                                trailers or semitrailers of the type 
                                recognized as used exclusively for hauling 
                                cattle. 
 
            8716.40.01          Other trailers and semi-trailers not used 
                                for transporting goods. 
 
            8716.80.99          Other (non-automotive vehicles except 
                                trailers or semi-trailers, wheel barrows 
 
                                Annex 301.3                                 

                                and hand-carts, or wheel barrows of 
                                hydraulic operation). 
 
                 (b)  Notwithstanding subparagraph (a), Mexico shall not 
                      prohibit or restrict the importation, on a temporary 
                      basis, of used goods provided for in the items set 
                      out in subparagraph (c) for the provision of a cross- 
                      border service subject to Chapter Twelve (Cross- 
                      Border Trade in Services) or the performance of a 
                      contract subject to Chapter Ten (Government 
                      Procurement), provided that the imported goods 
 
                      (i)  are necessary to the provision of the cross- 
                           border service or the performance of the 
                           contract awarded to a supplier of another Party, 
 
                      (ii) are used solely by or under the supervision of 
                           the service provider or the supplier performing 
                           the contract, 
 
                      (iii)     are not sold, leased or loaned while in the 
                                territory of Mexico, 
 
                      (iv) are imported in no greater quantity than is 
                           necessary for the provision of the service or 
                           the performance of the contract, 
 
                      (v)  are re-exported promptly on completion of the 
                           service or the contract, and 
 
                      (vi) comply with other applicable requirements on the 
                           importation of such goods to the extent they are 
                           not inconsistent with this Agreement. 
 
                 (c)  Subparagraph (b) applies to used goods provided for 
                      in the following items: 
 
 
            Item           Description 
 
 
            8413.11.01          Distributors fitted with a measuring device 
                                even if it includes a totalizing mechanism. 
 
            8413.40.01          Concrete pumps for liquids, not fitted with 
                                a measuring device from 36 up to 60 m3/hr 
                                capacity. 
 
                                Annex 301.3                                 
 
            8426.12.01          Mobile portals on tires and straddle 
                                carriers. 
 
            8426.19.01          Other (overhead travelling cranes, bridge 
                                cranes and straddle carriers). 
 
            8426.30.01          Portal cranes. 
 
            8426.41.01          Cranes with hydraulically actuated rigid 
                                jib, self-propelled with maximum capacity 
                                above 9.9 tons and not exceeding 30 tons. 
 
            8426.41.02          Cranes with structural iron jib (lattice) 
                                with mechanical working, self-propelled, 
                                with unit weight up to 55 tons. 
 
            8426.41.99          Other (machinery and apparatus, self 
                                propelled, on tires.) 
 
            8426.49.01          Cranes with structural iron jib (lattice) 
                                with mechanical working, with unit weight 
                                up to 55 tons. 
 
            8426.49.02          Cranes with hydraulically actuated rigid 
                                jib, self-propelled, with load capacity 
                                above 9.9 tons and not exceeding 30 tons. 
 
            8426.91.01          Cranes, other than those provided for in 
                                items 8426.91.02, 8426.91.03 and 
                                8426.91.04. 
 
            8426.99.01          Cranes, other than those provided for in 
                                items 8426.91.02 
 
            8426.99.02          Swivel cranes. 
 
            8426.99.99          Other (cranes and air cables ("blondines"); 
                                overhead travelling cranes, handling or 
                                unloading frames, bridge cranes, straddle 
                                carriers and straddle cranes). 
 
            8427.10.01          With load capacity up to 3,500 kilograms, 
                                measured at 620 millimeters from the 
                                frontal surface of the forks, without 
                                battery or loader. 
 
            8428.40.99          Other (escalators and moving walkways). 
 
                                  Annex 301.3                               

            8428.90.99          Other (machinery and apparatus for lifting, 
                                loading, unloading or handling). 
 
            8429.11.01          Caterpillar type. 
 
            8429.19.01          Other (bulldozers and angledozers). 
 
            8429.30.01          Scrapers. 
 
            8429.40.01          Tamping machines. 
 
            8429.51.02          Front-end loader with hydraulic working, 
                                wheel-type, with capacity equal or less 
                                than 335 HP. 
 
            8429.51.03          Mechanical shovels, other than those 
                                provided for in item 8429.51.01. 
 
            8429.51.99          Other (mechanical shovels, excavators, 
                                loaders and front-end shovel loaders). 
 
            8429.52.02          Draglines or excavators, other than those 
                                provided for in item 8429.52.01. 
 
            8429.52.99          Other (machinery with a 360  revolving 
                                superstructure). 
 
            8429.59.01          Trenchers. 
 
            8429.59.02          Draglines, with dragging load capacity up 
                                to 4,000 kilograms. 
 
            8429.59.03          Draglines or excavators, other than those 
                                provided for in item 8429.59.04. 
 
            8429.59.99          Other (self-propelled bulldozers, 
                                angledozers, graders, scrapers, mechanical 
                                shovels, excavators, loaders, shovel 
                                loaders, tamping machines and road 
                                rollers). 
 
            8430.31.01          Rotation and/or percussion perforators. 
 
            8430.31.99          Other (self-propelled cutters, pullers or 
                                wrenchers and machines to open tunnels or 
                                galleries). 
 
            8430.39.01          Boring shields. 
 
                           Annex 301.3                                      
       
            8430.39.99          Other (not self-propelled cutters, pullers 
                                or wrenchers and machines to open tunnels 
                                or galleries). 
 
            8430.41.01          Boring or sinking machinery, other than 
                                those provided for in item 8430.41.02. 
 
            8430.41.99          Other (self-propelled probing or boring 
                                machinery). 
 
            8430.49.99          Other (not self-propelled probing or boring 
                                machinery). 
 
            8430.50.01          Excavators, frontal loaders with hydraulic 
                                mechanism, with capacity equal to or less 
                                than 335 h.p. 
 
            8430.50.02          Scrapers. 
 
            8430.50.99          Other (self-propelled machinery and 
                                apparatus). 
 
            8430.61.01          Graders (pushers). 
 
            8430.61.02          Tamping or compacting rollers. 
 
            8430.62.01          Scarification machine (ripping machine). 
 
            8430.69.01          Scrapers, not self-propelled. 
 
            8430.69.02          Trencher machine, other than those provided 
                                for in item 8430.69.03. 
 
            8430.69.99          Other (trenchers, other than those provided 
                                for in items 8430.69.01, 8430.69.02 and 
                                8430.69.03). 
 
            8452.10.01          Sewing machines of the household type. 
 
            8452.21.04          Industrial machines, other than those 
                                provided for in items 8452.21.02, 
                                8452.21.03 and 8452.21.05. 
 
            8452.21.99          Other (automatic sewing machines). 
 
            8452.29.06          Industrial machines, other than those 
                                provided for in items 8452.29.01, 
                                8452.29.03 and 8452.29.05. 
 
                                Annex 301.3                                 
 
            8452.29.99          Other (non-automatic sewing machines). 
 
            8452.90.99          Other (parts of sewing machines). 
 
            8471.10.01          Analogue or hybrid automatic data 
                                processing machines. 
 
            8474.20.01          Crushing and grinding with two or more 
                                cylinders. 
 
            8474.20.03          Blade crushing machines. 
 
            8474.20.04          Crushing machines of balls or bars. 
 
            8474.20.99          Other (machines and apparatus to break, 
                                crush or grind or pulverize dirt, stones 
                                and other solid mineral materials). 
 
            8474.39.99          Other (mixing machines). 
 
            8474.80.99          Other (machines and apparatus to classify, 
                                sieve, separate, break, crush, grind, mix, 
                                or knead dirt, stones and other mineral 
                                materials). 
 
            8477.10.01          Injection-molding machines for 
                                thermoplastic materials, up to 5 kg 
                                capacity for one molding model. 
 
            8701.30.01          Caterpillar tractors with an engine power 
                                at the flywheel equal to or above 105 h.p., 
                                but less than 380 h.p. measured at 1,900 
                                rpm, including pushing blade. 
 
                           Annex 301.3                                      
 
                               Section C - U.S. Measures 
 
 
            1.   Articles 301 and 309 shall not apply to controls by the 
            United States on the export of logs of all species. 
 
            2.   Articles 301 and 309 shall not apply to: 
 
                 (a)  taxes on imported perfume containing distilled 
                      spirits under existing provisions of section 
                      5001(a)(3) and 5007(b)(2) of the Internal Revenue 
                      Code of 1986, 26 U.S.C.    5001(a)(3), 5007(b)(2), 
                      and 
 
                 (b)  measures under existing provisions of the Merchant 
                      Marine Act of 1920, 46 App. U.S.C.   883; the 
                      Passenger Vessel Act, 46 App. U.S.C.    289, 292, and 
                      316; and 46 U.S.C.   12108,  
 
            to the extent that such measures were mandatory legislation at 
            the time of the United States' accession to the GATT and have 
            not been amended so as to decrease their conformity with the 
            GATT. 
 
            3.   Articles 301 and 309 shall not apply to: 
 
                 (a)  the continuation or prompt renewal of a non- 
                      conforming provision of any statute referred to in 
                      paragraph 2; and 
 
                 (b)  the amendment to a non-conforming provision of any 
                      statute referred to in paragraph 2 to the extent that 
                      the amendment does not decrease the conformity of the 
                      provision with Articles 301 and 309. 
 
 
                                      Annex 302.2 
 
                                   Tariff Elimination 
 
 
            1.   Except as otherwise provided in a Party's Schedule 
            attached to this Annex, the following staging categories apply 
            to the elimination of customs duties by each Party pursuant to 
            Article 302(2): 
 
                 (a)  duties on goods provided for in the items in staging 
                      category A in a Party's Schedule shall be eliminated 
                      entirely and such goods shall be duty-free, effective 
                      January 1, 1994; 
 
                 (b)  duties on goods provided for in the items in staging 
                      category B in a Party's Schedule shall be removed in 
                      five equal annual stages beginning on January 1, 
                      1994, and such goods shall be duty-free, effective 
                      January 1, 1998; 
 
                 (c)  duties on goods provided for in the items in staging 
                      category C in a Party's Schedule shall be removed in 
                      10 equal annual stages beginning on January 1, 1994, 
                      and such goods shall be duty-free, effective January 
                      1, 2003; 
 
                 (d)  duties on goods provided for in the items in staging 
                      category C+ in a Party's Schedule shall be removed in 
                      15 equal annual stages beginning on January 1, 1994, 
                      and such goods shall be duty-free, effective January 
                      1, 2008; and 
 
                 (e)  goods provided for in the items in staging category D 
                      in a Party's Schedule shall continue to receive duty- 
                      free treatment. 
 
            2.   The base rate of customs duty and staging category for 
            determining the interim rate of customs duty at each stage of 
            reduction for an item are indicated for the item in each 
            Party's Schedule attached to this Annex.  These rates generally 
            reflect the rate of duty in effect on July 1, 1991, including 
            rates under the U.S. Generalized System of Preferences and the 
            General Preferential Tariff of Canada. 
 
            3.   For the purpose of the elimination of customs duties in 
            accordance with Article 302, interim staged rates shall be 
            rounded down, except as set out in each Party's Schedule 
 
                           Annex 302.2                                      

            attached to this Annex, at least to the nearest tenth of a 
            percentage point or, if the rate of duty is expressed in 
            monetary units, at least to the nearest .001 of the official 
            monetary unit of the Party. 
 
            4.   Canada shall apply a rate of customs duty no higher than 
            the rate applicable under the staging category set out for an 
            item in Annex 401.2, as amended, of the Canada - United States 
            Free Trade Agreement which Annex is hereby incorporated into 
            and made a part of this Agreement, to an originating good 
            provided that: 
 
                 (a)  notwithstanding any provision in Chapter Four, in 
                      determining whether such good is an originating good, 
                      operations performed in or materials obtained from 
                      Mexico are considered as if they were performed in or 
                      obtained from a non-Party; and 
 
                 (b)  any processing that occurs in Mexico after the good 
                      would qualify as an originating good in accordance 
                      with subparagraph (a) does not increase the 
                      transaction value of the good by greater than seven 
                      percent. 
 
            5.   Canada shall apply a rate of customs duty no higher than 
            the rate applicable under the staging category set out for an 
            item in Column I of its Schedule to this Annex to an 
            originating good provided that: 
 
                 (a)  notwithstanding any provision in Chapter Four, in 
                      determining whether such good is an originating good, 
                      operations performed in or materials obtained from 
                      the United States are considered as if they were 
                      performed in or obtained from a non-Party; and 
 
                 (b)  any processing that occurs in the United States after 
                      the good would qualify as an originating good in 
                      accordance with subparagraph (a) does not increase 
                      the transaction value of the good by greater than 
                      seven percent. 
 
            6.   Canada shall apply to an originating good to which neither 
            paragraph 4 nor 5 applies a rate of customs duty no higher than 
            the rate indicated for its corresponding item in Column II of 
            its Schedule to this Annex.  The rate of customs duty in Column 
            II for such good shall be: 
 
                                  Annex 302.2                               
 
                 (a)  in each year of the staging category indicated in 
                      Column I, the higher of 
 
                      (i)  the rate of customs duty under the staging 
                           category set out for the item in Annex 401.2, as 
                           amended, of the Canada - United States Free 
                           Trade Agreement, and 
 
                      (ii) the General Preferential Tariff rate of customs 
                           duty for the item applied on July 1, 1991, 
                           reduced in accordance with the applicable 
                           staging category set out for the item in Column 
                           I of its Schedule to this Annex; or 
 
                 (b)  where specified in Column II of its Schedule to this 
                      Annex, the most-favored-nation rate of customs duty 
                      for the item applied on July 1, 1991, reduced in 
                      accordance with the applicable staging category set 
                      out for the item in Column I of its Schedule to this 
                      Annex, or reduced in accordance with the applicable 
                      staging category otherwise indicated. 
 
            7.   Paragraphs 4 through 6 and 10 through 13 shall not apply 
            to textile and apparel goods identified in Appendix 1.1 of 
            Annex 300-B (Textiles and Apparel Goods). 
 
            8.   Paragraphs 4, 5 and 6 shall not apply to agricultural 
            goods as defined in Article 708.  For these goods, Canada shall 
            apply the rate applicable under the staging category set out 
            for an item in Annex 401.2, as amended, of the Canada - United 
            States Free Trade Agreement to an originating good when the 
            good qualifies to be marked as a good of the United States 
            pursuant to Annex 311, without regard to whether the good is 
            marked.  When an originating good qualifies to be marked as a 
            good of Mexico, pursuant to Annex 311, whether or not the good 
            is marked, Canada shall apply the rate applicable under the 
            staging category set out for an item in Column I of its 
            Schedule to this Annex. 
 
            9.   As between the United States and Canada, Articles 401(7) 
            and 401(8) of the Canada - United States Free Trade Agreement 
            are hereby incorporated and made a part of this Annex.  The 
            term "goods originating in the territory of the United States 
            of America" in Article 401(7) of that agreement shall be 
            determined in accordance with paragraph 4 of this Annex.  The 
            term "goods originating in the territory of Canada" in Article 
            401(8) of that agreement shall be determined in accordance with 
            paragraph 12 of this Annex. 
 
                           Annex 302.2                                      
 
            10.  Mexico shall apply a rate of customs duty no higher than 
            the rate applicable under the staging category set out for an 
            item in Column I of its Schedule to this Annex to an 
            originating good when the good qualifies to be marked as a good 
            of the United States, pursuant to Annex 311, without regard to 
            whether the good is marked. 
 
            11.  Mexico shall apply a rate of customs duty no higher than 
            the rate applicable under the staging category set out for an 
            item in Column II of its Schedule to this Annex to an 
            originating good when the good qualifies to be marked as a good 
            of Canada, pursuant to Annex 311, without regard to whether the 
            good is marked. 
 
            12.  The United States shall apply a rate of customs duty no 
            higher than the rate applicable under the staging category set 
            out for an item in Annex 401.2, as amended, of the Canada -  
            United States Free Trade Agreement to an originating good when 
            the good qualifies to be marked as a good of Canada pursuant to 
            Annex 311, without regard to whether the good is marked. 
 
            13.  The United States shall apply a rate of customs duty no 
            higher than the rate applicable under the staging category set 
            out for an item in its Schedule to this Annex to an originating 
            good when the good qualifies to be marked as a good of Mexico 
            pursuant to Annex 311, whether or not the good is marked. 
  
                                    Annex 302.2                             
 
                               Schedule of Canada 
 
                            (TARIFF SCHEDULE TO BE ATTACHED) 
 
 
                                   Schedule of Mexico 
 
                            (TARIFF SCHEDULE TO BE ATTACHED) 
 
 
                             Schedule of the United States 
 
                            (TARIFF SCHEDULE TO BE ATTACHED) 
 
                                      Annex 303.6                           
 
                            Goods Not Subject to Article 303 
 
 
            1.   For exports from the territory of the United States to the 
            territory of Canada or Mexico, a good provided for in U.S. 
            tariff item 1701.11.02 that is imported into the territory of 
            the United States and used as a material in the production of, 
            or substituted by an identical or similar good used as a 
            material in the production of, a good provided for in Canadian 
            tariff item 1701.99.00 or Mexican tariff items 1701.99.01 and 
            1701.99.99 (refined sugar). 
 
            2.   For trade between Canada and the United States: 
 
                 (a)  imported citrus products; 
 
                 (b)  an imported good used as a material in the production 
                      of, or substituted by an identical or similar good 
                      used as a material in the production of, a good 
                      provided for in U.S. items 5811.00.20 (quilted cotton 
                      piece goods), 5811.00.30 (quilted man-made piece 
                      goods) or 6307.90.99 (furniture moving pads), or 
                      Canadian items 5811.00.10 (quilted cotton piece 
                      goods), 5811.00.20 (quilted man-made piece goods) or 
                      6307.90.30 (furniture moving pads), that are subject 
                      to the most-favored-nation rate of duty when exported 
                      to the territory of the other Party; and 
 
                 (c)  an imported good used as a material in the production 
                      of, or substituted by an identical or similar good 
                      used as a material in the production of, apparel that 
                      is subject to the most-favored-nation rate of duty 
                      when exported to the territory of the other Party. 


                                     Annex 303.7 
 
                   Effective Dates for the Application of Article 303 
 
 
                                   Section A - Canada 
 
            For Canada, Article 303 shall apply to a good imported into the 
            territory of Canada that is: 
 
                 (a)  subsequently exported to the territory of the United 
                      States on or after January 1, 1996, or subsequently 
                      exported to the territory of Mexico on or after 
                      January 1, 2001; 
              
                 (b)  used as a material in the production of another good 
                      that is subsequently exported to the territory of the 
                      United States on or after January 1, 1996, or used as 
                      a material in the production of another good that is 
                      subsequently exported to the territory of Mexico on 
                      or after January 1, 2001; or  
 
                 (c)  substituted by an identical or similar good used as a 
                      material in the production of another good that is 
                      subsequently exported to the territory of the United 
                      States on or after January 1, 1996, or substituted by 
                      an identical or similar good used as a material in 
                      the production of another good that is subsequently 
                      exported to the territory of Mexico on or after 
                      January 1, 2001. 
 
 
                                   Section B - Mexico 
 
            For Mexico, Article 303 shall apply to a good imported into the 
            territory of Mexico that is: 
 
                 (a)  subsequently exported to the territory of another 
                      Party on or after January 1, 2001; 
 
                 (b)  used as a material in the production of another good 
                      that is subsequently exported to the territory of 
                      another Party on or after January 1, 2001; or 
 
                 (c)  substituted by an identical or similar good used as a 
                      material in the production of another good that is 
                      subsequently exported to the territory of another 
                      Party on or after January 1, 2001. 
 
                                     Annex 303.7                            

                               Section C - United States 
 
                 For the United States, Article 303 shall apply to a good 
            imported into the territory of the United States that is: 
 
                 (a)  subsequently exported to the territory of Canada on 
                      or after January 1, 1996, or subsequently exported to 
                      the territory of Mexico on or after January 1, 2001; 
 
                 (b)  used as a material in the production of another good 
                      that is subsequently exported to the territory of 
                      Canada on or after January 1, 1996, or used as a 
                      material in the production of another good that is 
                      subsequently exported to the territory of Mexico on 
                      or after January 1, 2001; or 
 
                 (c)  substituted by an identical or similar good used as a 
                      material in the production of another good 
                      subsequently exported to the territory of Canada on 
                      or after January 1, 1996, or substituted by an 
                      identical or similar good used as a material in the 
                      production of another good subsequently exported to 
                      the territory of Mexico on or after January 1, 2001. 
 
 
                                      Annex 303.8 
 
                              Exception to Article 303(8) 
                 for Certain Color Cathode-Ray Television Picture Tubes 
 
 
                                         Mexico 
 
            Mexico may refund customs duties paid, or waive or reduce the 
            amount of customs duties owed, on a good provided for in item 
            8540.11.aa (color cathode-ray television picture tubes, 
            including video monitor cathode-ray tubes, with a diagonal 
            exceeding 14 inches) or 8540.11.cc (color cathode-ray 
            television picture tubes for high definition television, with a 
            diagonal exceeding 14 inches) for a person who, during the 
            period July 1, 1991 through June 30, 1992, imported into its 
            territory no fewer than 20,000 units of such good that would 
            not have been considered to be an originating good had this 
            Agreement been in force during that period, where the good is: 
 
                 (a)  subsequently exported from the territory of Mexico to 
                      the territory of the United States, or is used as a 
                      material in the production of another good that is 
                      subsequently exported from the territory of Mexico to 
                      the territory of the United States, or is substituted 
                      by an identical or similar good used as a material in 
                      the production of another good that is subsequently 
                      exported to the territory of the United States, in an 
                      amount, for all such persons combined, no greater 
                      than 
 
                      (i)  1,200,000 units in 1994, 
 
                      (ii) 1,000,000 units in 1995, 
 
                      (iii)     800,000 units in 1996, 
 
                      (iv) 600,000 units in 1997, 
 
                      (v)  400,000 units in 1998, 
 
                      (vi) 200,000 units in 1999, and 
 
                      (vii)     zero units in 2000 and thereafter, 
 
                      provided that the number of units of the good on 
                      which such customs duties may be refunded, waived or 
                      reduced in any year shall be reduced, with respect to 
 
                                        Annex 303.8                         

                      that year, by the number of units of such good that 
                      qualifies as an originating good during the year 
                      immediately preceding that year, considering 
                      operations performed in, or materials obtained from, 
                      the territories of Canada and the United States as if 
                      they were performed in, or obtained from, a non- 
                      Party; or 
 
                 (b)  subsequently exported from the territory of Mexico to 
                      the territory of Canada, or is used as a material in 
                      the production of another good that is subsequently 
                      exported from the territory of Mexico to the 
                      territory of Canada, or is substituted by an 
                      identical or similar good used as a material in the 
                      production of another good that is subsequently 
                      exported to the territory of Canada, for all such 
                      persons combined, in an amount no greater than 
 
                      (i)  75,000 units in 1994, 
 
                      (ii) 50,000 units in 1995, and 
 
                      (iii)     zero units in 1996 and thereafter. 
 
                                      Annex 304.1 
 
                        Exceptions for Existing Waiver Measures 
 
 
                 Article 304(1) shall not apply in respect of existing 
            Mexican waivers of customs duties, except that Mexico shall 
            not: 
 
                 (a)  increase the ratio of customs duties waived to 
                      customs duties owed relative to the performance 
                      required under any such waiver; or 
 
                 (b)  add any type of imported good to those qualifying on 
                      July 1, 1991, in respect of any waiver of customs 
                      duties in effect on that date. 
 
                                      Annex 304.2 
 
                   Continuation of Existing Waivers of Customs Duties 
 
 
                 For purposes of Article 304(2): 
 
                 (a)  as between Canada and Mexico, Canada may condition on 
                      the fulfillment of a performance requirement the 
                      waiver of customs duties under any measure in effect 
                      on or before January 1, 1989, on any goods entered or 
                      withdrawn from warehouse for consumption before 
                      January 1, 1998; 
              
                 (b)  as between Canada and the United States, Article 405 
                      of the Canada - United States Free Trade Agreement is 
                      hereby incorporated and made a part of this Annex 
                      solely with respect to measures adopted by Canada or 
                      the United States prior to the date of entry into 
                      force of this Agreement; 
 
                 (c)  Mexico may condition on the fulfillment of a 
                      performance requirement the waiver of customs duties 
                      under any measure in effect on July 1, 1991, on any 
                      goods entered or withdrawn from warehouse for 
                      consumption before January 1, 2001; and 
 
                 (d)  Canada may grant waivers of customs duties as set out 
                      in Annex 300-A (Trade and Investment in the 
                      Automotive Sector). 
 
                                    Annex 307.1 
 
                      Goods Re-Entered after Repair or Alteration 
 
 
                                   Section A - Canada 
 
                 Canada may impose customs duties on goods, regardless of 
            their origin, that re-enter its territory after such goods have 
            been exported from its territory to the territory of another 
            Party for repair or alteration as follows: 
 
                 (a)  for goods set out in Section D that re-enter its 
                      territory from the territory of Mexico, Canada shall 
                      apply to the value of the repair or alteration of 
                      such goods the rate of customs duty for such goods 
                      applicable under its Schedule to Annex 302.2; 
 
                 (b)  for goods other than those set out in Section D that 
                      re-enter its territory from the territory of the 
                      United States or Mexico, other than goods repaired or 
                      altered pursuant to a warranty, Canada shall apply to 
                      the value of the repair or alteration of such goods 
                      the rate of customs duty for such goods applicable 
                      under the Tariff Schedule of Canada attached to Annex 
                      401.2 of the Canada - United States Free Trade 
                      Agreement, as incorporated into Annex 302.2 of this 
                      Agreement; and 
 
                 (c)  for goods set out in Section D that re-enter its 
                      territory from the territory of the United States, 
                      Canada shall apply to the value of the repair or 
                      alteration of such goods the rate of customs duty for 
                      such goods applicable under its Schedule attached to 
                      Annex 401.2 of the Canada - United States Free Trade 
                      Agreement, as incorporated into Annex 302.2 of this 
                      Agreement. 
 
 
                                   Section B - Mexico 
 
                 Mexico may impose customs duties on goods set out in 
            Section D, regardless of their origin, that re-enter its 
            territory after such goods have been exported from its 
            territory to the territory of another Party for repair or 
            alteration, by applying to the value of the repair or 
            alteration of those goods the rate of customs duty for such 
 
                               Annex 307.1                                  

            goods that would apply if such goods were included in staging 
            category B in Mexico's Schedule to Annex 302.2. 
 
 
                               Section C - United States 
 
            1.   The United States may impose customs duties on: 
 
                 (a)  goods set out in Section D, or 
 
                 (b)  goods that are not set out in Section D and that are 
                      not repaired or altered pursuant to a warranty, 
 
            regardless of their origin, that re-enter its territory after 
            such goods have been exported from its territory to the 
            territory of Canada for repair or alteration, by applying to 
            the value of the repair or alteration of such goods the rate of 
            customs duty applicable under the Canada - United States Free 
            Trade Agreement, as incorporated into Annex 302.2 of this 
            Agreement. 
 
            2.   The United States may impose customs duties on goods set 
            out in Section D, regardless of their origin, that re-enter its 
            territory after such goods have been exported from its 
            territory to the territory of Mexico for repair or alteration, 
            by applying to the value of the repair or alteration of such 
            goods a rate of customs duty of 50 percent reduced in five 
            equal annual stages beginning on January 1, 1994, and the value 
            of such repair or alteration shall be duty-free on January 1, 
            1998. 
 
 
                               Section D - List of Goods 
 
                 Any vessel, including the following goods, documented by a 
            Party under its law to engage in foreign or coastwise trade, or 
            a vessel intended to be employed in such trade: 
 
                 (a)  cruise ships, excursion boats, ferry-boats, cargo 
                      ships, barges and similar vessels for the transport 
                      of persons or goods, including 
 
                      (i)  tankers, 
 
                      (ii) refrigerated vessels, other than tankers, and 

                                  Annex 307.1                               
 
                      (iii)     other vessels for the transport of goods 
                                and other vessels for the transport of both 
                                persons and goods, including open vessels; 
 
                 (b)  fishing vessels, including factory ships and other 
                      vessels for processing or preserving fishery products 
                      of a registered length not exceeding 30.5m; 
 
                 (c)  light-vessels, fire-floats, dredgers, floating 
                      cranes, and other vessels the navigability of which 
                      is subsidiary to their main function, floating docks, 
                      floating or submersible drilling or production 
                      platforms; and drilling ships, drilling barges and 
                      floating drilling rigs; and 
 
                 (d)  tugboats. 
 
                                     Annex 307.3 
 
                            Repair and Rebuilding of Vessels 
 
 
                                     United States 
 
                 For the purpose of increasing transparency regarding the 
            types of repairs that may be performed in shipyards outside the 
            territory of the United States that do not result in any loss 
            of privileges for such vessel to: 
 
                 (a)  remain eligible to engage in coastwise trade or to 
                      access U.S. fisheries,  
 
                 (b)  transport U.S. government cargo, or 
 
                 (c)  participate in U.S. assistance programs, including 
                      the "operating difference subsidy," 
 
            the United States shall,  
 
                 (d)  provide written clarification no later than July 1, 
                      1993, to the other Parties of current U.S. Customs 
                      and Coast Guard practices that constitute, and 
                      differentiate between, the repair and the rebuilding 
                      of vessels, including clarifications with respect to 
                      "jumboizing", vessel conversions and casualty 
                      repairs, and 
 
                 (e)  begin a process, no later than the date of entry into 
                      force of this Agreement, to define the terms 
                      "repairs" and "rebuilding" under U.S. maritime law, 
                      including the Merchant Marine Act of 1920, 46 App. 
                      U.S.C.   883, and the Merchant Marine Act of 1936, 46 
                      App. U.S.C.    1171, 1176, 1241 and 1241(o). 
 

                                      Annex 308.1 
 
                          Most-Favored-Nation Rates of Duty on 
                Certain Automatic Data Processing Goods and Their Parts 
 
 
                             Section A - General Provisions 
 
            1.   Each Party shall reduce its most-favored-nation rate of 
            duty applicable to a good provided for under the tariff 
            provisions set out in Tables 308.1.1 and 308.1.2 in Section B 
            to the rate set out therein, to the lowest rate agreed by any 
            Party in the Uruguay Round of Multilateral Trade Negotiations, 
            or to such reduced rate as the Parties may agree, in accordance 
            with the schedule set out in Section B, or with such 
            accelerated schedule as the Parties may agree. 
 
            2.   Notwithstanding Chapter Four (Rules of Origin), when the 
            most-favored-nation rate of duty applicable to a good provided 
            for under the tariff provisions set out in Table 308.1.1 in 
            Section B conforms with the rate established under paragraph 1, 
            each Party shall consider the good, when imported into its 
            territory from the territory of another Party, to be an 
            originating good. 
 
            3.   A Party may reduce in advance of the schedule set out in 
            Table 308.1.1 or Table 308.1.2 in Section B, or of such 
            accelerated schedule as the Parties may agree, its most- 
            favored-nation rate of duty applicable to any good provided for 
            under the tariff provisions set out therein, to the lowest rate 
            agreed by any Party in the Uruguay Round of Multilateral Trade 
            Negotiations, or the rate set out in Table 308.1.1 or 308.1.2, 
            or to such reduced rate as the Parties may agree. 
 
            4.   For greater certainty, most-favored-nation rate of duty 
            does not include any other concessionary rate of duty. 
  
                                    Annex 308.1                             
                
                  ___________ 
 
 
                  Section B - Rates of Duty and Schedule for Reduction 
 
                                     Table 308.1.1 
 
                                                    Tariff Rate             

                                                                        Sch 
                                                                        edu 
                                                                        le1 
 
 
            Automatic Data Processing 
             Machines (ADP): 
 
                 8471.10                            3.9%           S 
 
                 8471.20                            3.9%           S 
 
 
            Digital Processing Units: 
 
                 8471.91                            3.9%           S 
 
            Input or Output Units: 
 
                 Combined Input/Output Units:                 
____________________________ 
 
                 Canada: 
 
                 8471.92.10                              3.7%           S 
 
                 Mexico: 
 
                 8471.92.09                              3.7%           S 
 
                 United States: 
 
                 8471.92.10                              3.7%           S 
 
                 Display Units:                  ______________ 
 
                 Canada: 
 
                 8471.92.32                              3.7%           S 
                                         ____________________ 
 
               1    R    on the date of entry into force of this Agreement 
 
               S    in five equal annual stages commencing January 1, 1999. 
 
 
                                       Annex 308.1                          
                   
                  ___________ 
 
 
                 8471.92.33                              Free           S 
                 8471.92.34                              3.7%           S 
                 8471.92.39                              3.7%           S 
 
                 Mexico: 
 
                 8471.92.10                              3.7%           S 
                 8471.92.11                              Free           S 
 
                 United States: 
 
                 8471.92.30                              Free           S 
                 8471.92.40.75                           3.7%           S 
                 8471.92.40.85                           3.7%           S 
 
                 Other Input or Output Units:                 
____________________________ 
 
                 Canada: 
 
                 8471.92.40                              3.7%           S 
                 8471.92.50                              Free           S 
                 8471.92.90                              Free           S 
 
                 Mexico: 
 
                 8471.92.12                              3.7%           S 
                 8471.92.99                              Free           S 
 
                 United States: 
 
                 8471.92.20                              Free           S 
                 8471.92.80                              Free           S 
                 8471.92.90.20                           Free           S 
                 8471.92.90.40                           3.7%           S 
                 8471.92.90.60                           Free           S 
                 8471.92.90.80                           Free           S 
 
            Storage Units 
 
                 8471.93                            Free           S 
 
 
            Other Units of Automatic Data Processing 
             Machines 
 
                 8471.99                            Free           S 
 
                                    Annex 308.1                             
                
                  ___________ 
 
 
            Parts of Computers 
 
                 8473.30                            Free           R 
 
 
            Computer Power Supplies 
 
                 Canada: 
 
                 8504.40.40                              Free           S 
                 8504.90.80                              Free           S 
 
                 Mexico: 
 
                 8504.40.12                              Free           S 
                 8504.90.08                              Free           S 
 
                 United States: 
 
                 8504.40.00A                             Free           S 
                 8504.40.00B                             Free           S 
                 8504.90.00B                             Free           S 
 
                                     Annex 308.1                            
                 
  
                                     Table 308.1.2 
 
                                                    Tariff Rate             

            Schedule2 
 
            Metal Oxide Varistors: 
 
                 Canada: 
 
                 8533.40.10                              Free           R 
 
                 Mexico: 
 
                 8533.40.07                              Free           R 
 
                 United States: 
 
                 8533.40.00A                             Free           R 
 
 
            Diodes, Transistors and Similar 
            Semiconductor Devices; Photosensitive 
            Semiconductor Devices; Light Emitting 
            Diodes; Mounted Piezo-electric Crystals 
 
                 8541.10                            Free           R 
                 8541.21                            Free           R 
                 8541.29                            Free           R 
                 8541.30                            Free           R 
                 8541.50                            Free                R 
                 8541.60                            Free           R 
                 8541.90                            Free           R 
 
 
                 Canada: 
 
                 8541.40                            Free           R 
 
 
                 Mexico: 
 
                 8541.40                            Free           R 
 
                                         ____________________ 
 
               2    R    on the date of entry of this Agreement 
 
               S    in five equal annual stages commencing January 1, 1999. 
 
 
                                     Annex 308.1                            
                 
 
                 United States: 
 
                 8541.40.20                              Free           S 
                 8541.40.60                              Free           R 
                 8541.40.70                              Free           R 
                 8541.40.80                              Free           R 
                 8541.40.95                              Free           R 
 
 
            Electronic Integrated Circuits 
            and Microassemblies 
 
                 8542                               Free           R 
 

                                      Annex 308.2 
 
                           Most-Favored-Nation Rates of Duty 
                 on Certain Color Cathode-Ray Television Picture Tubes 
 
 
            1.   Any Party considering the reduction of its most-favored- 
            nation rate of customs duty for goods provided for in item 
            8540.11.aa (color cathode-ray television picture tubes, 
            including video monitor cathode-ray tubes, with a diagonal 
            exceeding 14 inches) or 8540.11.cc (color cathode-ray 
            television picture tubes for high definition television, with a 
            diagonal exceeding 14 inches) during the first 10 years after 
            the date of entry into force of this Agreement shall consult 
            with the other Parties in advance of such reduction. 
 
            2.   If any other Party objects in writing to such reduction, 
            other than a reduction in the Uruguay Round of Multilateral 
            Trade Negotiations, and the Party proceeds with the reduction, 
            any objecting Party may raise its applicable rate of duty on 
            originating goods provided for in the corresponding tariff item 
            set out in its Schedule to Annex 302.2, up to the applicable 
            rate of duty as if such good had been placed in staging 
            category C for purpose of tariff elimination. 
 
 
                                      Annex 308.3 
 
                             Most-Favored-Nation Duty-Free 
                       Treatment of Local Area Network Apparatus 
 
 
                 To facilitate the operation of Article 308(3), the Parties 
            shall consult regarding the tariff classification of local area 
            network apparatus and shall endeavor to agree, no later than 
            January 1, 1994, on the classification of such goods in each 
            Party's tariff schedule. 
 

                                   Annex 310.1 
 
                               Existing Customs User Fees 
 
 
                                   Section A - Mexico 
 
                 Mexico shall not increase its customs processing fee 
            ("derechos de tr mite aduanero") on originating goods, and 
            shall eliminate such fee on originating goods by June 30, 1999. 
 
 
                               Section B - United States 
 
            1.   The United States shall not increase its merchandise 
            processing fee and shall eliminate such fee according to the 
            schedule set out in Article 403 of the Canada - United States 
            Free Trade Agreement on originating goods where those goods 
            qualify to be marked as goods of Canada pursuant to Annex 311, 
            without regard to whether the goods are marked. 
 
            2.   The United States shall not increase its merchandise 
            processing fee and shall eliminate such fee by June 30, 1999, 
            on originating goods where those goods qualify to be marked as 
            goods of Mexico pursuant to Annex 311, without regard to 
            whether the goods are marked. 
 
                                       Annex 311 
 
                               Country of Origin Marking 
 
 
            1.   The Parties shall establish by January 1, 1994, rules for 
            determining whether a good is a good of a Party ("Marking 
            Rules") for purposes of this Annex, Annex 300-B and Annex 
            302.2, and for such other purposes as the Parties may agree. 
 
            2.   Each Party may require that a good of another Party, as 
            determined in accordance with the Marking Rules, bear a country 
            of origin marking, when imported into its territory, that 
            indicates to the ultimate purchaser of that good the name of 
            its country of origin. 
 
            3.   Each Party shall permit the country of origin marking of a 
            good of another Party to be indicated in English, French or 
            Spanish, except that a Party may, as part of its general 
            consumer information measures, require that an imported good be 
            marked with its country of origin in the same manner as 
            prescribed for goods of that Party. 
 
            4.   Each Party shall, in adopting, maintaining and applying 
            any measure relating to country of origin marking, minimize the 
            difficulties, costs and inconveniences that the measure may 
            cause to the commerce and industry of the other Parties. 
 
            5.   Each Party shall: 
 
                 (a)  accept any reasonable method of marking of a good of 
                      another Party, including the use of stickers, labels, 
                      tags or paint, that ensures that the marking is 
                      conspicuous, legible and sufficiently permanent; 
 
                 (b)  exempt from a country of origin marking requirement a 
                      good of another Party that 
 
                      (i)  is incapable of being marked, 
 
                      (ii) cannot be marked prior to exportation to the 
                           territory of another Party without causing 
                           injury to the goods, 
 
                      (iii)     cannot be marked except at a cost that is 
                                substantial in relation to its customs 
                                value so as to discourage its exportation 
                                to the territory of the Party, 
 
                                      Annex 311                             

                      (iv) cannot be marked without materially impairing 
                           its function or substantially detracting from 
                           its appearance, 
 
                      (v)  is in a container that is marked in a manner 
                           that will reasonably indicate the good's origin 
                           to the ultimate purchaser, 
 
                      (vi) is a crude substance, 
 
                      (vii)     is imported for use by the importer and is 
                                not intended for sale in the form in which 
                                it was imported, 
 
                      (viii)    is to undergo production in the territory 
                                of the importing Party by the importer, or 
                                on its behalf, in a manner that would 
                                result in the good becoming a good of the 
                                importing Party under the Marking Rules, 
 
                      (ix) by reason of its character, or the circumstances 
                           of its importation, the ultimate purchaser would 
                           reasonably know its country of origin even 
                           though it is not marked, 
 
                      (x)  was produced more than 20 years prior to its 
                           importation, 
 
                      (xi) was imported without the required marking and 
                           cannot be marked after its importation except at 
                           a cost that would be substantial in relation to 
                           its customs value, provided that the failure to 
                           mark the good before importation was not for the 
                           purpose of avoiding compliance with the 
                           requirement, 
 
                      (xii)     for purposes of temporary duty-free 
                                admission, is in transit or in bond or 
                                otherwise under customs administration 
                                control, 
 
                      (xiii)    is an original work of art, or 
 
                      (xiv)     is provided for in subheading 6904.10, or 
                                heading 8541 or 8542. 
 
            6.   Except for a good described in subparagraphs 5(b)(vi), 
            (vii), (viii), (ix), (x), (xii), (xiii) and (xiv), a Party may 
 
                                   Annex 311                                
 
            provide that, wherever a good is exempted under subparagraph 
            5(b), its outermost usual container shall be marked so as to 
            indicate the country of origin of the good it contains. 
 
            7.   Each Party shall provide that: 
 
                 (a)  a usual container imported empty, whether or not 
                      disposable, shall not be required to be marked with 
                      its own country of origin, but the container in which 
                      it is imported may be required to be marked with the 
                      country of origin of its contents; and 
 
                 (b)  a usual container imported filled, whether or not 
                      disposable, 
 
                      (i)  shall not be required to be marked with its own 
                           country of origin, but 
 
                      (ii) may be required to be marked with the country of 
                           origin of its contents, unless the contents are 
                           marked with their country of origin and the 
                           container can be readily opened for inspection 
                           of the contents, or the marking of the contents 
                           is clearly visible through the container. 
 
            8.   Each Party shall, wherever administratively practicable, 
            permit an importer to mark a good of a Party subsequent to 
            importation but prior to release of the good from customs 
            control or custody, unless there have been repeated violations 
            of the country of origin marking requirements of the Party by 
            the same importer and that importer has been previously 
            notified in writing that such good is required to be marked 
            prior to importation. 
 
            9.   Each Party shall provide that, except with respect to 
            importers that have been notified under paragraph 8, no special 
            duty or penalty shall be imposed for failure to comply with 
            country of origin marking requirements of that Party, unless 
            the good is removed from customs custody or control without 
            being properly marked, or a deceptive marking has been used. 
 
            10.  The Parties shall cooperate and consult on matters related 
            to this Annex, including additional exemptions from a country 
            of origin marking requirement, in accordance with Article 513 
            (Customs Procedures - Working Group and Customs Subgroup). 
 
            11.  For purposes of this Annex: 
 
                                  Annex 311                                 
 
            conspicuous means capable of being easily seen with normal 
            handling of the good or container; 
 
            customs value means the value of a good for purposes of levying 
            duties of customs on an imported good; 
 
            legible means capable of being easily read; 
 
            sufficiently permanent means capable of remaining in place 
            until the good reaches the ultimate purchaser, unless 
            deliberately removed; 
 
            the form in which it was imported means the condition of the 
            good before it has undergone one of the changes in tariff 
            classification described in the Marking Rules; 
 
            ultimate purchaser means the last person in the territory of an 
            importing Party that purchases the good in the form in which it 
            was imported; such purchaser need not be the last person that 
            will use the good; and 
 
            usual container means the container in which a good will 
            ordinarily reach its ultimate purchaser. 
 
 
                                      Annex 312.2 
 
                               Wine and Distilled Spirits 
 
 
                        Section A - Canada and the United States 
 
                 As between Canada and the United States, any measure 
            related to the internal sale and distribution of wine and 
            distilled spirits, other than a measure covered by Article 
            312(1) or 313, shall be governed under this Agreement 
            exclusively in accordance with the relevant provisions of the 
            Canada - United States Free Trade Agreement, which for this 
            purpose are hereby incorporated into and made a part of this 
            Agreement. 
 
 
                             Section B - Canada and Mexico 
 
            As between Canada and Mexico: 
 
            1.   Except as provided in paragraphs 3 through 6, in respect 
            of any measure related to the internal sale and distribution of 
            wine and distilled spirits, Article 301 shall not apply to: 
 
                 (a)  a non-conforming provision of any existing measure; 
 
                 (b)  the continuation or prompt renewal of a non- 
                      conforming provision of any existing measure; or 
 
                 (c)  an amendment to a non-conforming provision of any 
                      existing measure to the extent that the amendment 
                      does not decrease its conformity with Article 301. 
 
            2.   The Party asserting that paragraph 1 applies to one of its 
            measures shall have the burden of establishing the validity of 
            such assertion.  
 
            3.   (a)  Any measure related to the listing of wine and 
                      distilled spirits of the other Party shall: 
 
                      (i)  conform with Article 301, 
 
                      (ii) be transparent, non-discriminatory and provide 
                           for prompt decision on any listing application, 
                           prompt written notification of such decision to 
                           the applicant and, in the case of a negative 
 
                                        Annex 312.2                         
 
                           decision, provide for a statement of the reason 
                           for refusal, 
 
                      (iii)     establish administrative appeal procedures 
                                for listing decisions that provide for 
                                prompt, fair and objective rulings, 
 
                      (iv) be based on normal commercial considerations, 
 
                      (v)  not create disguised barriers to trade, and 
 
                      (vi) be published and made generally available to 
                           persons of the other Party. 
 
                 (b)  Notwithstanding paragraph 3(a) and Article 301, and 
                      provided that listing measures of British Columbia 
                      otherwise conform with paragraph 3(a) and Article 
                      301, automatic listing measures in the province of 
                      British Columbia may be maintained provided they 
                      apply only to existing estate wineries producing less 
                      than 30,000 gallons of wine annually and meeting the 
                      existing content rule. 
 
            4.   (a)  Where the distributor is a public entity, the entity 
                      may charge the actual cost-of-service differential 
                      between wine or distilled spirits of the other Party 
                      and domestic wine or distilled spirits.  Any such 
                      differential shall not exceed the actual amount by 
                      which the audited cost of service for the wine or 
                      distilled spirits of the exporting Party exceeds the 
                      audited cost of service for the wine or distilled 
                      spirits of the importing Party. 
 
                 (b)  Notwithstanding Article 301, Article I (Definitions) 
                      except for the definition of "distilled spirits", 
                      Article IV.3 (Wine), and Annexes A, B, and C, of the 
                      Agreement between Canada and the European Economic 
                      Community concerning Trade and Commerce in Alcoholic 
                      Beverages, dated February 28, 1989, shall apply with 
                      such changes as the circumstances may require. 
 
                 (c)  All discriminatory mark-ups on distilled spirits 
                      shall be eliminated immediately on the date of entry 
                      into force of this Agreement.  Cost-of-service 
                      differential mark-ups as described in subparagraph 
                      (a) shall be permitted. 
 
                                    Annex 312.2                             
 
                 (d)  Any other discriminatory pricing measure shall be 
                      eliminated on the date of entry into force of this 
                      Agreement. 
 
            5.   (a)  Any measure related to distribution of wine or 
                      distilled spirits of the other Party shall conform 
                      with Article 301. 
 
                 (b)  Notwithstanding subparagraph (a), and provided that 
                      distribution measures otherwise ensure conformity 
                      with Article 301, a Party may 
 
                      (i)  maintain or introduce a measure limiting on- 
                           premise sales by a winery or distillery to those 
                           wines or distilled spirits produced on its 
                           premises, and 
 
                      (ii) maintain a measure requiring existing private 
                           wine store outlets in the provinces of Ontario 
                           and British Columbia to discriminate in favor of 
                           wine of those provinces to a degree no greater 
                           than the discrimination required by such 
                           existing measure. 
 
                 (c)  Nothing in this Agreement shall prohibit the Province 
                      of Quebec from requiring that any wine sold in 
                      grocery stores in Quebec be bottled in Quebec, 
                      provided that alternative outlets are provided in 
                      Quebec for the sale of wine of the other Party, 
                      whether or not such wine is bottled in Quebec. 
 
            6.   Unless otherwise specifically provided in this Annex, the 
            Parties retain their rights and obligations under the GATT and 
            agreements negotiated under the GATT. 
 
            7.   For purposes of this Annex: 
 
            wine includes wine and wine-containing beverages. 
 
                                    Annex 313 
 
                                  Distinctive Products 
 
 
            1.   Canada and Mexico shall recognize Bourbon Whiskey and 
            Tennessee Whiskey, which is a straight Bourbon Whiskey 
            authorized to be produced only in the State of Tennessee, as 
            distinctive products of the United States.  Accordingly, Canada 
            and Mexico shall not permit the sale of any product as Bourbon 
            Whiskey or Tennessee Whiskey, unless it has been manufactured 
            in the United States in accordance with the laws and 
            regulations of the United States governing the manufacture of 
            Bourbon Whiskey and Tennessee Whiskey. 
 
            2.   Mexico and the United States shall recognize Canadian 
            Whisky as a distinctive product of Canada.  Accordingly, Mexico 
            and the United States shall not permit the sale of any product 
            as Canadian Whisky, unless it has been manufactured in Canada 
            in accordance with the laws and regulations of Canada governing 
            the manufacture of Canadian Whisky for consumption in Canada. 
 
            3.   Canada and the United States shall recognize Tequila and 
            Mezcal as distinctive products of Mexico.  Accordingly, Canada 
            and the United States shall not permit the sale of any product 
            as Tequila or Mezcal, unless it has been manufactured in Mexico 
            in accordance with the laws and regulations of Mexico governing 
            the manufacture of Tequila and Mezcal.  This provision shall 
            apply to Mezcal, either on the date of entry into force of this 
            Agreement, or 90 days after the date when the official standard 
            for this product is made obligatory by the Government of 
            Mexico, whichever is later. 
 
                                       Annex 314 
 
                                      Export Taxes 
 
 
                                         Mexico 
 
            1.   Mexico may adopt or maintain a duty, tax or other charge 
            on the export of those basic foodstuffs set out in paragraph 4, 
            on their ingredients or on the goods from which such foodstuffs 
            are derived, if such duty, tax or other charge is adopted or 
            maintained on the export of such goods to the territory of all 
            other Parties, and is used: 
 
                 (a)  to limit to domestic consumers the benefits of a 
                      domestic food assistance program with respect to such 
                      foodstuff; or 
 
                 (b)  to ensure the availability of sufficient quantities 
                      of such foodstuff to domestic consumers or of 
                      sufficient quantities of its ingredients, or of the 
                      goods from which such foodstuffs are derived, to a 
                      domestic processing industry, when the domestic price 
                      of such foodstuff is held below the world price as 
                      part of a governmental stabilization plan, provided 
                      that such duty, tax, or other charge 
 
                      (i)  does not operate to increase the protection 
                           afforded to such domestic industry, and 
 
                      (ii) is maintained only for such period of time as is 
                           necessary to maintain the integrity of the 
                           stabilization plan. 
 
            2.   Notwithstanding paragraph 1, Mexico may adopt or maintain 
            a duty, tax or other charge on the export of any foodstuff to 
            the territory of another Party if such duty, tax or other 
            charge is temporarily applied to relieve critical shortages of 
            that foodstuff.  For purposes of this paragraph, "temporarily" 
            means up to one year, or such longer period as the Parties may 
            agree. 
 
            3.   Mexico may maintain its existing tax on the export of 
            goods provided for under tariff item 4001.30.02 of the Tariff 
            Schedule of the General Export Duty Act ("Tarifa de la Ley del 
            Impuesto General de Exportaci n") for up to 10 years after the 
            date of entry into force of this Agreement. 
 
                              Annex 314                                     
 
            4.   For purposes of paragraph 1, "basic foodstuffs" means: 
 
 
            Beans 
            Beef steak or pulp                 Ground beef 
            Beef liver                         Instant coffee 
            Beef remnants and bones            Low-priced cookies ("galletas 
            ("retazo con hueso")               dulces populares") 
            Beer                               Margarine 
            Bread                              Oat flakes 
            Brown sugar                        Pasteurized milk 
            Canned sardines                    Powdered chocolate 
            Canned tuna                        Powdered milk for children 
            Canned peppers                     Powdered milk 
            Chicken broth                      Rice 
            Condensed milk                     Roasted coffee 
            Cooked ham                         Salt 
            Corn tortillas                     Soft drinks 
            Corn flour                         Soup paste 
            Corn dough                         Tomato puree 
            Crackers                           Vegetable oil 
            Eggs                               Vegetable fat 
            Evaporated milk                    Wheat flour 
            French rolls ("pan blanco")        White sugar 
            Gelatine 
 

                                       Annex 315 
 
                                 Other Export Measures 
 
 
                 Article 315 shall not apply as between Mexico and the 
                 other Parties. 
 
Title:Annex 300-A -- Trade and Investment in the Automotive Sector
Author: White House
Document-Date: 29 Sept 1993
Content-Type: text/plain; CHARSET=US-ASCII
Content-Length:61047


                                      Annex 300-A

                     Trade and Investment in the Automotive Sector


            1.   Each Party shall accord to all existing producers of
            vehicles in its territory treatment no less favorable than it
            accords to any new producer of vehicles in its territory under
            the measures referred to in this Annex, except that this
            obligation shall not be construed to apply to any differences
            in treatment specifically provided for in the Appendices to
            this Annex. 

            2.   The Parties shall review, no later than December 31, 2003,
            the status of the North American automotive sector and the
            effectiveness of the measures referred to in this Annex to
            determine actions that could be taken to strengthen the
            integration and global competitiveness of the sector.

            3.   Appendices 300-A.1, 300-A.2 and 300-A.3 apply to the
            Parties specified therein respecting trade and investment in
            the automotive sector.

            4.   For purposes of this Annex, unless otherwise specified in
            the Appendices:

            existing producer of vehicles means a producer that was
            producing vehicles in the territory of the relevant Party prior
            to model year 1992; 

            new producer of vehicles means a producer that began producing
            vehicles in the territory of the relevant Party after model
            year 1991; 

            used vehicle means a vehicle that: 

                 (a)  has been sold, leased or loaned;

                 (b)  has been driven for more than 

                      (i)  1,000 kilometers if the vehicle has a gross
                           weight of less than five metric tons, or

                      (ii) 5,000 kilometers if the vehicle has a gross
                           weight of five metric tons or more; or

                 (c)  was manufactured prior to the current year and at
                      least 90 days have elapsed since the date of
                      manufacture; and

            vehicle means an automobile, a truck, a bus or a special
            purpose motor vehicle, not including a motorcycle.

                                    Annex 300-A                             

                                   Appendix 300-A.1 

                                         Canada

            Existing Measures

            1.   Canada and the United States may maintain the Agreement
            Concerning Automotive Products between the Government of Canada
            and the Government of the United States of America, signed at
            Johnson City, Texas, January 16, 1965 and entered into force on
            September 16, 1966, in accordance with Article 1001, and
            Article 1002(1) and (4) (as they refer to Annex 1002.1, Part
            One), Article 1005(1) and (3), and Annex 1002.1, Part One
            (Waivers of Customs Duties) of the Canada - United States Free
            Trade Agreement, which provisions are hereby incorporated into
            and made a part of this Agreement for such purpose, except that
            for purposes of Article 1005(1) of that agreement, Chapter Four
            (Rules of Origin) of this Agreement shall be applied in the
            place of Chapter Three of the Canada - United States Free Trade
            Agreement.

            2.   Canada may maintain the measures referred to in Article
            1002(1) and (4) (as they refer to Annex 1002.1, Parts Two and
            Three), Article 1002(2) and (3), Article 1003 and Parts Two
            (Export-Based Waivers of Customs Duties) and Three (Production-
            Based Waivers of Customs Duties) of Annex 1002.1 of the
            Canada - United States Free Trade Agreement.  Canada shall
            eliminate those measures in accordance with the terms set out
            in that agreement.

            3.   For greater certainty, the differences in treatment
            pursuant to paragraphs 1 and 2 shall not be considered to be
            inconsistent with Article 1103 (Investment - Most-Favored-
            Nation Treatment).

            Used Vehicles

            4.   Canada may adopt or maintain prohibitions or restrictions
            on imports of used vehicles from the territory of Mexico,
            except as follows:

                 (a)  beginning January 1, 2009, Canada may not adopt or
                      maintain a prohibition or restriction on imports from
                      the territory of Mexico of originating used vehicles
                      that are at least 10 years old;

                 (b)  beginning January 1, 2011, Canada may not adopt or
                      maintain a prohibition or restriction on imports from
                      the territory of Mexico of originating used vehicles

                                        Annex 300-A                         

                      that are at least eight years old;

                 (c)  beginning January 1, 2013, Canada may not adopt or
                      maintain a prohibition or restriction on imports from
                      the territory of Mexico of originating used vehicles
                      that are at least six years old;

                 (d)  beginning January 1, 2015, Canada may not adopt or
                      maintain a prohibition or restriction on imports from
                      the territory of Mexico of originating used vehicles
                      that are at least four years old;

                 (e)  beginning January 1, 2017, Canada may not adopt or
                      maintain a prohibition or restriction on imports from
                      the territory of Mexico of originating used vehicles
                      that are at least two years old; and

                 (f)  beginning January 1, 2019, Canada may not adopt or
                      maintain a prohibition or restriction on imports from
                      the territory of Mexico of originating used vehicles.

            5.   Paragraph 4 shall not be construed to allow Canada to
            derogate from its obligations in respect of land transportation
            services under Chapter Twelve (Cross-Border Trade in Services),
            including its Schedule to Annex I.

                                     Annex 300-A                            

                                    Appendix 300-A.2

                                         Mexico

            Auto Decree and Auto Decree Implementing Regulations

            1.   Until January 1, 2004, Mexico may maintain the provisions
            of the Decree for Development and Modernization of the
            Automotive Industry ("Decreto para el Fomento y Modernizaci n
            de la Industria Automotriz"), December 11, 1989, (the "Auto
            Decree") and the Resolution that Establishes Rules for the
            Implementation of the Auto Decree ("Acuerdo que Determina
            Reglas para la Aplicaci n para el Fomento y Modernizaci n de la
            Industria Automotriz"), November 30, 1990, (the "Auto Decree
            Implementing Regulations") that would otherwise be inconsistent
            with this Agreement, subject to the conditions set out in
            paragraphs 2 through 18.  No later than January 1, 2004, Mexico
            shall bring any inconsistent provision of the Auto Decree and
            the Auto Decree Implementing Regulations into conformity with
            the other provisions of this Agreement.

            Autoparts Industry, National Suppliers and Independent
            Maquiladoras

            2.   Mexico may not require that an enterprise attain a level
            of national value added in excess of 20 percent of its total
            sales as one of the conditions to qualify as a national
            supplier or enterprise of the autoparts industry.

            3.   Mexico may require that a national supplier or an
            enterprise of the autoparts industry, in calculating its
            national value added solely for purposes of paragraph 2,
            include customs duties in the value of imports incorporated
            into the autoparts produced by such supplier or enterprise.

            4.   Mexico shall grant national supplier status to an
            independent maquiladora that requests such status and meets the
            requirements for that status set out in the existing Auto
            Decree, as modified by paragraphs 2 and 3.  Mexico shall
            continue to grant to all independent maquiladoras that request
            national supplier status all existing rights and privileges
            accorded to independent maquiladoras under the existing Decree
            for the Promotion and Operation of the Maquiladora Export
            Industry ("Decreto para el Fomento y Operaci n de la Industria
            Maquiladora de Exportaci n"), December 22, 1989 (the
            "Maquiladora Decree"). 

                                    Annex 300-A                             

            National Value Added

            5.   Mexico shall provide that a manufacturer ("empresa de la
            industria terminal") calculate its required national value
            added from suppliers (VANp) as a percentage of:

                 (a)  the manufacturer's reference value as set out in
                      paragraph 8; or

                 (b)  the manufacturer's total national value added (VANt),

            whichever is greater, except that Mexico shall provide that a
            manufacturer beginning production of motor vehicles in Mexico
            after model year 1991 calculate its required national value
            added from suppliers (VANp) as a percentage of its total
            national value added (VANt).

            6.   Mexico may not require that the percentage referred to in
            paragraph 5 be greater than:

                 (a)  34 percent for each of the first five years beginning
                      January 1, 1994;

                 (b)  33 percent for 1999;

                 (c)  32 percent for 2000;

                 (d)  31 percent for 2001;

                 (e)  30 percent for 2002; and

                 (f)  29 percent for 2003.

            7.   Notwithstanding paragraph 6, Mexico shall allow a
            manufacturer that produced motor vehicles in Mexico before
            model year 1992 to use as its percentage referred to in
            paragraph 5 the ratio of actual national value added from
            suppliers (VANp) to total national value added (VANt) that the
            manufacturer attained in model year 1992, for so long as that
            ratio is lower than the applicable percentage specified under
            paragraph 6.  In determining such ratio for model year 1992,
            purchases that the manufacturer made from independent
            maquiladoras that would have been eligible to receive national
            supplier status had paragraphs 2, 3 and 4 of this Appendix been
            in effect at that time, shall be included in the calculation of
            the manufacturer's national value added from suppliers (VANp),
            in the same manner as autoparts from any other national
            supplier or enterprise of the autoparts industry.

                                    Annex 300-A                             

            8.   The annual reference value for a manufacturer ("reference
            value") shall be:

                 (a)  for each of the years 1994 through 1997, the base
                      value for the manufacturer, plus no more than 65
                      percent of the difference between the manufacturer's
                      total sales in Mexico in that year and its base
                      value;

                 (b)  for each of the years 1998 through 2000, the base
                      value for the manufacturer, plus no more than 60
                      percent of the difference between the manufacturer's
                      total sales in Mexico in that year and its base
                      value; and

                 (c)  for each of the years 2001 through 2003, the base
                      value for the manufacturer, plus no more than 50
                      percent of the difference between the manufacturer's
                      total sales in Mexico in that year and its base
                      value.

            9.   Mexico shall provide that where a manufacturer's total
            sales in Mexico in a year are lower than its base value, the
            reference value for the manufacturer for that year shall be
            equal to the manufacturer's total sales in Mexico for the year.

            10.  In the event an abnormal production disruption affects a
            manufacturer's production capability, Mexico shall allow the
            manufacturer to seek a reduction in its reference value before
            the Intersecretariat Automotive Industry Commission,
            established under Chapter V of the Auto Decree.  If the
            Commission finds that the production capability of the
            manufacturer has been impaired by such an abnormal production
            disruption, the Commission shall reduce the manufacturer's
            reference value in an amount commensurate to the event.

            11.  If, on the request of a manufacturer, the Intersecretariat
            Automotive Industry Commission finds that the production
            capability of the manufacturer has been significantly disrupted
            as a result of a major retooling or plant conversion in the
            facilities of the manufacturer, the Commission shall reduce the
            manufacturer's reference value for that year in an amount
            commensurate with the disruption, provided that any reduction
            in that manufacturer's required national value added from
            suppliers (VANp) that may result from the Commission's
            determination to reduce the manufacturer's reference value
            shall be fully made up by the manufacturer over the 24 months
            after the date on which the retooling or plant conversion is
            completed.

                               Annex 300-A                                  

            Trade Balance

            12.  Mexico may not require a manufacturer to include in the
            calculation of its trade balance (S) a percentage of the value
            of direct and indirect imports of autoparts that the
            manufacturer incorporated into that manufacturer's production
            in Mexico for sale in Mexico (VTVd) in the corresponding year,
            greater than the following:

                 (a)  80 percent for 1994; 

                 (b)  77.2 percent for 1995;

                 (c)  74.4 percent for 1996;

                 (d)  71.6 percent for 1997;

                 (e)  68.9 percent for 1998;

                 (f)  66.1 percent for 1999; 

                 (g)  63.3 percent for 2000;

                 (h)  60.5 percent for 2001;

                 (i)  57.7 percent for 2002; and

                 (j)  55.0 percent for 2003.

            13.  Mexico shall provide that, for purposes of determining a
            manufacturer's total national value added (VANt), paragraph 12
            shall not apply to the calculation of the manufacturer's trade
            balance (S).

            14.  Mexico shall allow a manufacturer with a surplus in its
            extended trade balance to divide its extended trade balance by
            the applicable percentages in paragraph 12 to determine the
            total value of new motor vehicles that it may import.

            15.  Mexico shall provide that a manufacturer's adjustment
            factor (Y), included in the calculation of such manufacturer's
            extended trade balance, shall be equal to:

                 (a)  for a manufacturer that produced motor vehicles prior
                      to model year 1992

                      (i)  the greater of the manufacturer's reference
                           value or the manufacturer's total national value
                           added (VANt), minus

                                     Annex 300-A                            

                      (ii) the manufacturer's actual national value added
                           from suppliers (VANp) divided by the appropriate
                           percentage specified under paragraph 6 or 7 as
                           appropriate;

                 (b)  for all other manufacturers

                      (i)  the manufacturer's total national value added
                           (VANt), minus

                      (ii) the manufacturer's actual national value added
                           from suppliers (VANp) divided by the appropriate
                           percentage specified under paragraph 6,

            except that the adjustment factor (Y) shall be zero if the
            amount resulting from subtracting (ii) from (i), under (a) or
            (b), is negative.

            16.  In determining the annual amount that a manufacturer may
            apply to its extended trade balance from unused surpluses
            earned prior to model year 1991, Mexico shall in any year allow
            the manufacturer to elect:

                 (a)  to use the procedures of the existing Auto Decree
                      Implementing Regulations; or

                 (b)  to apply up to the Mexican peso equivalent of US$150
                      million, adjusted annually for cumulative inflation,
                      from the date of entry into force of this Agreement,
                      based on the implicit price deflator for U.S. Gross
                      Domestic Product (GDP) or any successor index
                      published by the Council of Economic Advisers in its
                      "Economic Indicators" (hereinafter "U.S. GDP price
                      deflator").  To adjust the US$150 million ceiling for
                      cumulative inflation up to a certain month of a year
                      following 1994, the $150 million shall be multiplied
                      by the ratio of

                      (i)  the U.S. GDP price deflator current as of the
                           month of that year, to 

                      (ii) the U.S. GDP price deflator current as of the
                           date of entry into force of this Agreement,

                      provided that the price deflators under subparagraphs
                      (i) and (ii) have the same base year. 

                      The resulting adjusted amount shall be rounded to the
                      nearest million dollars.

                                   Annex 300-A                              

            Other Restrictions in the Auto Decree

            17.  Mexico shall eliminate any restriction that limits the
            number of motor vehicles that a manufacturer may import into
            Mexico in relation to the total number of motor vehicles that
            such manufacturer sells in Mexico.

            18.  For greater certainty, the differences in treatment
            required under paragraphs 5, 7 and 15 shall not be considered
            to be inconsistent with Article 1103 (Investment - Most-
            Favored-Nation Treatment).

            Other Restrictions

            19.  For the first 10 years after the date of entry into force
            of this Agreement, Mexico may maintain prohibitions or
            restrictions on the importation of new automotive products
            provided for in existing items 8407.34.99 (gasoline engines of
            more than 1000cm3, except for motorcycles) and 8703.10.99
            (other special vehicles) in the Tariff Schedule of the General
            Import Duty Act ("Tarifa de la Ley del Impuesto General de
            Importaci n"), except that Mexico may not prohibit or restrict
            the importation of automotive products provided for in item
            8407.34.99 by manufacturers that comply with the Auto Decree
            and the Auto Decree Implementing Regulations, as modified by
            this Appendix.

            Autotransportation Decree and Autotransportation Implementing
            Regulations

            20.  Mexico shall eliminate the Mexican Decree for Development
            and Modernization of the Autotransportation Vehicle
            Manufacturing Industry, ("Decreto para el Fomento y
            Modernizaci n de la Industria Manufacturera de Vehiculos de
            Autotransporte"), December 1989, and the Resolution that
            Establishes Rules for the Implementation of the
            Autotransportation Decree ("Acuerdo que Establece Reglas de
            Aplicaci n del Decreto para el Fomento y Modernizaci n de la
            Industria Manufacturera de Veh culos de Autotransporte"),
            November 1990.  Mexico may adopt or maintain any measure
            respecting autotransportation vehicles, autotransportation
            parts or manufacturers of autotransportation vehicles provided
            that the measure is not inconsistent with this Agreement. 

            Importation of Autotransportation Vehicles

            21.  Mexico may adopt or maintain a prohibition or restriction
            on the importation of autotransportation vehicles of another
            Party until January 1, 1999, except with respect to the

                                Annex 300-A                                 

            importation of autotransportation vehicles pursuant to
            paragraphs 22 and 23.

            22.  For each of the years 1994 through 1998, Mexico shall
            allow any manufacturer of autotransportation vehicles to
            import, for each type of autotransportation vehicle, a quantity
            of originating autotransportation vehicles equal to at least 50
            percent of the number of vehicles of such type that the
            manufacturer produced in Mexico in that year. 

            23.  For each of the years 1994 through 1998, Mexico shall
            allow persons other than manufacturers of autotransportation
            vehicles to import, in a quantity to be allocated among such
            persons, originating autotransportation vehicles of each type
            as follows:

                 (a)  for each of the years 1994 and 1995, no less than 15
                      percent of the total number of vehicles of each type
                      of autotransportation vehicle produced in Mexico;

                 (b)  for 1996, no less than 20 percent of the total number
                      of vehicles of each type of autotransportation
                      vehicle produced in Mexico; and

                 (c)  for each of the years 1997 and 1998, no less than 30
                      percent of the total number of vehicles of each type
                      of autotransportation vehicle produced in Mexico.

            Mexico shall allocate such quantity through a
            non-discriminatory auction.

            Used Vehicles

            24.  Mexico may adopt or maintain prohibitions or restrictions
            on imports of used vehicles from the territory of another
            Party, except as follows:

                 (a)  beginning January 1, 2009, Mexico may not adopt or
                      maintain a prohibition or restriction on imports from
                      the territories of Canada or the United States of
                      originating used vehicles that are at least 10 years
                      old;

                 (b)  beginning January 1, 2011, Mexico may not adopt or
                      maintain a prohibition or restriction on imports from
                      the territories of Canada or the United States of
                      originating used vehicles that are at least eight
                      years old;

                                      Annex 300-A                           

                 (c)  beginning January 1, 2013, Mexico may not adopt or
                      maintain a prohibition or restriction on imports from
                      the territories of Canada or the United States of
                      originating used vehicles that are at least six years
                      old;

                 (d)  beginning January 1, 2015, Mexico may not adopt or
                      maintain a prohibition or restriction on imports from
                      the territories of Canada or the United States of
                      originating used vehicles that are at least four
                      years old;

                 (e)  beginning January 1, 2017, Mexico may not adopt or
                      maintain a prohibition or restriction on imports from
                      the territories of Canada or the United States of
                      originating used vehicles that are at least two years
                      old; and

                 (f)  beginning January 1, 2019, Mexico may not adopt or
                      maintain a prohibition or restriction on imports from
                      the territories of Canada or the United States of
                      originating used vehicles.

            25.  (a)  Paragraph 24 shall not apply to the importation on a
                      temporary basis of a used vehicle provided for in
                      item 8705.20.01 (mobile drilling derricks),
                      8705.20.99 (other mobile drilling derricks) or
                      8705.90.01 (street sweepers) of the Tariff Schedule
                      of the General Import Duty Act.  Such importation
                      shall be subject to the conditions set out in
                      paragraph 4(b) of Annex 301.3-B for such time as
                      Mexico may adopt or maintain a prohibition or
                      restriction on the importation of the vehicle under
                      paragraph 24.

                 (b)  Paragraph 24 shall not be construed to allow Mexico
                      to derogate from its obligations in respect of land
                      transportation services under Chapter Twelve (Cross-
                      Border Trade in Services), including its Schedule to
                      Annex I.

            Import Licensing Measures

            26.  Mexico may adopt or maintain import licensing measures to
            the extent necessary to administer restrictions pursuant to:

                 (a)  the Auto Decree and the Auto Decree Implementing
                      Regulations, as modified by this Appendix, on the
                      importation of motor vehicles;

                                     Annex 300-A                            

                 (b)  paragraph 19 of this Appendix on the importation of
                      new automotive products provided for in item
                      8407.34.99 (gasoline engines of more than 1000cm3,
                      except for motorcycles) or 8703.10.99 (other special
                      vehicles) in the Tariff Schedule of the General
                      Import Duty Act;

                 (c)  paragraphs 22 and 23 of this Appendix on the
                      importation of autotransportation vehicles; and

                 (d)  paragraph 24 (a) through (f) of this Appendix on the
                      importation of used vehicles that are motor vehicles
                      or autotransportation vehicles or of other used
                      vehicles provided for in existing items 8702.90.01
                      (trolley buses), 8705.10.01 (mobile cranes),
                      8705.20.99 (other mobile drilling derricks),
                      8705.90.01 (street sweepers) or 8705.90.99 (other
                      special purpose vehicles, nes) in the Tariff Schedule
                      of the General Import Duty Act;

            provided that such measures shall not have trade restrictive
            effects on the importation of such goods additional to those
            due to restrictions imposed in accordance with this Appendix,
            and that a license shall be granted to any person that fulfills
            Mexico's legal requirements for the importation of the goods.

            Definitions

            27.  For purposes of this Appendix:

            abnormal production disruption means a disruption in a
            manufacturer's production capability resulting from a natural
            disaster, fire, explosion or other unforeseen event beyond the
            manufacturer's control;

            automotive products (referred to as "productos automotrices" in
            rule 1, paragraph III of the Auto Decree Implementing
            Regulations) means motor vehicles and autoparts;

            autoparts (referred to as "partes y componentes automotrices"
            in article 2, paragraph X of the Auto Decree) means parts and
            components intended for use in a motor vehicle;

            autotransportation parts means parts and components intended
            for use in an autotransportation vehicle;

            autotransportation vehicle means a vehicle of one of the
            following types:

                                  Annex 300-A                               

                 (a)  a vehicle without a chassis and with an integrated
                      body, intended for the transport of more than 10
                      persons, with a gross vehicle weight of more than
                      8,864 kilograms, provided for in items 8702.10.02,
                      8702.10.03, 8702.90.03, 8702.90.04, 8705.20.01 or
                      8705.40.01 of the Tariff Schedule of the General
                      Import Duty Act;

                 (b)  a vehicle with a chassis, intended for the transport
                      of goods or more than 10 persons, with a gross
                      vehicle weight of more than 8,864 kilograms, provided
                      for in items 8702.10.01, 8702.10.03, 8702.90.02,
                      8702.90.04, 8704.22.99, 8704.23.99, 8704.32.99,
                      8705.20.01, 8705.40.01 or 8706.00.99 of the Tariff
                      Schedule of the General Import Duty Act; or

                 (c)  a vehicle with two or three axles, either with
                      integrated equipment or intended for the transport of
                      goods by hauling a trailer, or semi-trailer, provided
                      for in items 8701.20.01, 8705.20.01, 8705.40.01 or
                      8706.00.99 of the Tariff Schedule of the General
                      Import Duty Act;

            base value means the average for model years 1991 and 1992 of a
            manufacturer's production in Mexico for sale in Mexico (VTVd),
            adjusted annually for cumulative inflation, based on the
            Mexican National Producer Price Index of Vehicles, Autoparts,
            and other Transportation Goods ("Indice Nacional de Precios al
            Productor de veh culos, refacciones y otros materiales de
            transporte"), or any successor index, published by the Bank of
            Mexico ("Banco de Mexico") in its "Economic Indicators"
            ("Indicadores Economicos") (hereinafter "Mexican NPPI").  To
            adjust the base value for cumulative inflation up to 1994 or a
            subsequent year, the average for model years 1991 and 1992 of
            the manufacturer's VTVd shall be multiplied by the ratio of:

                 (a)  the Mexican NPPI for that year, to

                 (b)  the Mexican NPPI for 1992,

            provided that the price indices set out in subparagraphs (a)
            and (b) have the same base year;

            enterprise of the autoparts industry (referred to as "empresa
            de la industria de autopartes" in article 2, paragraph V, and
            articles 6 and 7 of the Auto Decree) means an enterprise
            constituted or organized under the law of, and operating in,
            Mexico that produces autoparts and:

                                 Annex 300-A                                

                 (a)  whose annual invoice value of sales of autoparts to
                      manufacturers, for use as original equipment by the
                      manufacturer in its production of automotive products
                      for sale in Mexico, constitutes more than 60 percent
                      of the enterprise's annual total invoice value of
                      sales, calculating its annual invoice value of sales
                      of autoparts to manufacturers in accordance with rule
                      20 of the Auto Decree Implementing Regulations as of
                      August 12, 1992, or any other measure adopted by
                      Mexico that is no more restrictive than such rule;

                 (b)  complies with the national value added requirements
                      pursuant to paragraphs 2 and 3 of this Appendix; 

                 (c)  complies with the capital structure required under
                      the Law to Promote Mexican Investment and Regulate
                      Foreign Investment ("Ley para Promover la Inversi n
                      Mexicana y Regular la Inversi n Extranjera"), March
                      9, 1973, and the Regulations of the Law to Promote
                      Mexican Investment and to Regulate Foreign Investment
                      ("Reglamento de la Ley para Promover la Invers on
                      Mexicana y Regular la Invers on Extranjera"), May 16,
                      1989, as applied consistently with Mexico's
                      commitments set out in its Schedule to Annex I of
                      Part Five (Investment, Services and Related Matters);
                      and

                 (d)  that, on the fulfillment of the requirements under
                      (a), (b) and (c), is registered with the Ministry of
                      Trade and Industrial Development ("Secretar a de
                      Comercio y Fomento Industrial") ("SECOFI") as an
                      enterprise of the autoparts industry, except that
                      SECOFI may grant registration to an enterprise that
                      complies with subparagraphs (b) and (c) but does not
                      comply with subparagraph (a);

            extended trade balance for a manufacturer is equal to S + T + W
            + 0.3I + SFt - Y, where:

                 (a)  S denotes the manufacturer's trade balance; 

                 (b)  T denotes the transfer of

                      (i)  trade balance surpluses between the manufacturer
                           and other manufacturers, and

                      (ii) foreign exchange to the manufacturer that an
                           enterprise of the autoparts industry has earned
                           from exports of autoparts, excluding the value

    
                            Annex 300-A                                     

                           of import content in such exports, and excluding
                           foreign exchange that the enterprise has earned
                           from exports of autoparts that were promoted by
                           the manufacturer, 

                      applied in accordance with rule 8 of the Auto Decree
                      Implementing Regulations as of August 12, 1992, or
                      any other measure adopted by Mexico that is no more
                      restrictive than such rule;

                 (c)  W denotes the transfer to the manufacturer of foreign
                      exchange that a maquiladora has earned from the
                      export of automotive products, excluding the value of
                      the import content in such exports, provided that the
                      maquiladora is not a national supplier, and one or
                      more of the following conditions is met 

                      (i)  the manufacturer is, directly or indirectly, a
                           majority shareholder of the maquiladora,

                      (ii) the manufacturer and the maquiladora have a
                           majority shareholder in common, or

                      (iii)     the manufacturer is a promoter of the
                                automotive goods exported by such
                                maquiladora,

                      calculated in accordance with article 9 of the Auto
                      Decree and rule 8 of the Auto Decree Implementing
                      Regulations as of August 12, 1992, or any other
                      measure adopted by Mexico that is no more restrictive
                      than that article or rule; 

                 (d)  I denotes the value of the manufacturer's investments
                      in fixed assets of Mexican origin destined for
                      permanent use in Mexico, excluding machinery and
                      equipment purchased in Mexico but not produced in
                      Mexico, that the manufacturer may transfer to its
                      extended trade balance, applied in accordance with
                      article 11 of the Auto Decree and rule 8 of the Auto
                      Decree Implementing Regulations as of August 12,
                      1992, or any other measure adopted by Mexico that is
                      no more restrictive than the article or rule; 

                 (e)  SFt denotes the manufacturer's trade balance
                      surpluses unused in prior years and transferred to
                      the current year, calculated in accordance with rules
                      17 and 19 of the Auto Decree Implementing Regulations
                      as of August 12, 1992, as modified by paragraph 16 of

                                     Annex 300-A                            

                      this Appendix, or any other measure adopted by Mexico
                      that is no more restrictive than such rules; and

                 (f)  Y denotes the adjustment factor calculated in
                      accordance with paragraph 15;

            independent maquiladora means an enterprise registered as an
            export maquiladora enterprise under the existing Maquiladora
            Decree, that has no majority shareholder in common with any
            manufacturer, and in which no manufacturer is directly or
            indirectly a majority shareholder;

            manufacturer (referred to as "empresa de la industria terminal"
            in article 2, paragraph IV, and articles 3, 4 and 5 of the Auto
            Decree) means an enterprise constituted or organized under the
            law of, and operating in, Mexico, that is:

                 (a)  registered with SECOFI; and

                 (b)  engaged in Mexico in the manufacture or final
                      assembly of motor vehicles;

            manufacturer of autotransportation vehicles means an enterprise
            constituted or organized under the law of, and operating in,
            Mexico:

                 (a)  that is registered with SECOFI;

                 (b)  that manufactures autotransportation vehicles in
                      Mexico; and

                 (c)  where the enterprise's

                      (i)  total invoice value of sales of
                           autotransportation vehicles and
                           autotransportation parts that it produces in
                           Mexico, minus

                      (ii) total invoice value of autotransportation parts
                           that the enterprise imports directly, plus the
                           value of the import content of
                           autotransportation parts that it purchases in
                           Mexico,

                      is equal to at least 40 percent of its total invoice
                      value of sales of autotransportation vehicles and
                      autotransportation parts that the enterprise produces
                      in Mexico;

                                     Annex 300-A                            

            manufacturer's production in Mexico for sale in Mexico (VTVd)
            means the total invoice value of a manufacturer's sales in
            Mexico of motor vehicles and autoparts it produced in Mexico,
            excluding the manufacturer's sales of imported motor vehicles;

            manufacturer's total sales in Mexico means the manufacturer's
            total invoice value of sales of motor vehicles it produced in
            Mexico for sale in Mexico plus the total invoice value of its
            sales of imported motor vehicles; 

            model year (referred to as "a o-modelo" in article 2, paragraph
            IX of the Auto Decree) means a 12-month period beginning
            November 1;

            motor vehicle (referred to as "veh culos automotores" in
            article 2, paragraph IV of the Auto Decree) means an
            automobile, a compact automobile of popular use, a commercial
            truck, a light duty truck or a medium duty truck, where: 

                 (a)  automobile means a vehicle intended for the transport
                      of up to 10 persons, provided for in items 8703.21
                      through 8703.33, 8703.90.99, 8706.00.01, 8706.00.02
                      or 8706.00.99 of the Tariff Schedule of the General
                      Import Duty Act;

                 (b)  compact automobile of popular use means a vehicle
                      that complies with the characteristics set out in the
                      existing Decree that Establishes Exemptions for
                      Compact Automobiles of Popular Use ("Decreto que
                      Otorga Exenciones a los Autom viles Compactos de
                      Consumo Popular"), August 2, 1989, provided for in
                      items 8703.21 through 8703.33, 8703.90.99,
                      8706.00.01, 8706.00.02 or 8706.00.99 of the Tariff
                      Schedule of the General Import Duty Act;

                 (c)  commercial truck means a vehicle with or without a
                      chassis, intended for the transport of goods or more
                      than 10 persons, with a gross vehicle weight of up to
                      2,727 kilograms provided for in items 8702.10,
                      8702.90.02, 8702.90.03, 8703.21 through 8703.33,
                      8703.90.99, 8704.21.99, 8704.31.99, 8705.20.01,
                      8705.40.01, 8706.00.01, 8706.00.02 or 8706.00.99 of
                      the Tariff Schedule of the General Import Duty Act; 

                 (d)  light duty truck means a vehicle with or without a
                      chassis, intended for the transport of goods or more
                      than 10 persons, with a gross vehicle weight of more
                      than 2,727 but no more than 7,272 kilograms provided
                      for in items 8702.10, 8702.90.02, 8702.90.03,

                                       Annex 300-A                          

                      8704.21.99, 8704.22.99, 8704.31.99, 8704.32.99,
                      8705.20.01, 8705.40.01, 8706.00.01, 8706.00.02 or
                      8706.00.99 of the Tariff Schedule of the General
                      Import Duty Act; and

                 (e)  medium duty truck means a vehicle with or without a
                      chassis, intended for the transport of goods or more
                      than 10 persons, with a gross vehicle weight of more
                      than 7,272 but no more than 8,864 kilograms provided
                      for in items 8702.10, 8702.90.02, 8702.90.03,
                      8704.22.99, 8704.32.99, 8705.20.01, 8705.40.01,
                      8706.00.01, 8706.00.02 or 8706.00.99 of the Tariff
                      Schedule of the General Import Duty Act;

            national supplier (referred to as "proveedor nacional" in
            article 2, paragraph VII of the Auto Decree) means an
            enterprise constituted or organized under the law of, and
            operating in, Mexico:

                 (a)  that supplies to manufacturers autoparts classified
                      in categories 26, 40, 41, 42, 43 and 57 of the
                      input-output matrix of the National Institute of
                      Statistics, Geography and Informatics ("Instituto
                      Nacional de Estad stica, Geograf a e Inform tica"),
                      published in 1980; 

                 (b)  that is registered with SECOFI; 

                 (c)  in which no manufacturer, directly or indirectly, is
                      a majority shareholder;

                 (d)  that has no majority shareholders that are also
                      majority shareholders of any manufacturer; and

                 (e)  that complies with the national value added
                      requirements pursuant to paragraphs 2 and 3;

            national value added from suppliers (VANp) (referred to as
            "VANp" in rule 18 of the Auto Decree Implementing Regulations)
            means, for a manufacturer, the sum of:

                 (a)  the national value added contained in the autoparts
                      that the manufacturer purchases from national
                      suppliers and from enterprises of the autoparts
                      industry, excluding purchases of autoparts from such
                      suppliers and enterprises destined for the
                      aftermarket, and

                 (b)  the foreign exchange attributable to the value of

                                        Annex 300-A                         

                      exports of autoparts, excluding the value of import
                      content in the exports, produced by national
                      suppliers and enterprises of the autoparts industry,
                      where the export of the autoparts was promoted by the
                      manufacturer,

            calculated in accordance with formula 7 of rule 18 in the Auto
            Decree Implementing Regulations as of August 12, 1992, or any
            other measure adopted by Mexico that is no more restrictive
            than such formula;

            national value added means, for an enterprise of the autoparts
            industry or a national supplier, the total value of sales of
            such enterprise or supplier minus the value of its total
            imports, direct and indirect, excluding those imports
            incorporated in autoparts destined for the aftermarket, as
            modified by paragraphs 2 and 3;

            total national value added (VANt) (referred to as "valor
            agregado nacional de la empresa de la industria terminal" in
            rule 18 of the Auto Decree Implementing Regulations) means, for
            a manufacturer, either:

                 (a)  the sum of the manufacturer's production in Mexico
                      for sale in Mexico (VTVd) plus the manufacturer's
                      trade balance (S), where the trade balance (S) is
                      greater than zero; or

                 (b)  the manufacturer's production in Mexico for sale in
                      Mexico (VTVd), where the manufacturer's trade balance
                      (S) is negative;

            total sales means, for a national supplier or an enterprise of
            the autoparts industry, the sum of:

                 (a)  the invoice value of sales of autoparts by that
                      supplier or enterprise to a manufacturer that are
                      intended for use as original equipment in the motor
                      vehicles or autoparts that the manufacturer produces,
                      excluding autoparts destined for the aftermarket; and

                 (b)  the value of autoparts that the supplier or
                      enterprise exports, either directly or through a
                      manufacturer, less the value of the imported content
                      of such autoparts; and

            trade balance (S) (referred to as "saldo en balanza comercial"
            in rule 9 of the Auto Decree Implementing Regulations), for a
            manufacturer, is equal to X + TP - ID - IP, where:

                                  Annex 300-A                               

                 (a)  X denotes the value of the manufacturer's direct
                      exports of motor vehicles and autoparts that it
                      produces, 

                 (b)  TP denotes the foreign exchange attributable to the
                      value of exports of autoparts, excluding the value of
                      import content in the exports, produced by national
                      suppliers and enterprises of the autoparts industry,
                      where the exportation of such autoparts was promoted
                      by the manufacturer,

                 (c)  ID denotes the value of the manufacturer's direct
                      imports, excluding duties and domestic taxes, and
                      whether the imports are for domestic consumption
                      ("definitivas") or for re-export ("temporales"),
                      incorporated in the motor vehicles and autoparts
                      produced by the manufacturer, excluding autoparts
                      destined for the aftermarket, and

                 (d)  IP denotes the value of import content in the
                      autoparts purchased by the manufacturer from an
                      enterprise of the autoparts industry or a national
                      supplier that are incorporated in the motor vehicles
                      and autoparts produced by the manufacturer, excluding
                      the import content of autoparts destined for the
                      aftermarket, calculated in accordance with rules 10,
                      12, 13, 14, and 15 of the Auto Decree Implementing
                      Regulations as of August 12, 1992, or any other
                      measure adopted by Mexico that is no more restrictive
                      than such rules,

            provided that, for purposes of subparagraphs (c) and (d), the
            value of imports for domestic consumption ("definitivas") shall
            be discounted in accordance with paragraph 12.

                                 Annex 300-A                                

                              Appendix 300-A.3

                     United States - Corporate Average Fuel Economy

            1.   In accordance with the schedule set out in paragraph 2,
            for purposes of the Energy Policy and Conservation Act of 1975,
            42 U.S.C.   6201 et seq. ("the CAFE Act"), the United States
            shall consider an automobile to be domestically manufactured in
            any model year if at least 75 percent of the cost to the
            manufacturer of such automobile is attributable to value added
            in Canada, Mexico or the United States, unless the assembly of
            the automobile is completed in Canada or Mexico and such
            automobile is not imported into the United States prior to the
            expiration of the 30 days following the end of the model year. 

            2.   Paragraph 1 shall apply to all automobiles produced by a
            manufacturer and sold in the United States, wherever produced
            and irrespective of car line or truck line, in accordance with
            the following schedule:

                 (a)  with respect to a manufacturer that initiated the
                      production of automobiles in Mexico before model year
                      1992, the enterprise subject to the fuel economy
                      requirements for those automobiles under the CAFE Act
                      may make a one-time election at any time between
                      January 1, 1997 and 
                      January 1, 2004, to have paragraph 1 applied
                      beginning with the next model year after its
                      election;

                 (b)  with respect to a manufacturer initiating the
                      production of automobiles in Mexico after model year
                      1991, paragraph 1 shall apply beginning with the next
                      model year after either January 1, 1994 or the date
                      that the manufacturer initiates the production of
                      automobiles in Mexico, whichever is later;

                 (c)  with respect to any other manufacturer producing
                      automobiles in the territory of a Party, the
                      enterprise subject to the fuel economy requirements
                      for those automobiles under the CAFE Act may make a
                      one-time election at any time between January 1, 1997
                      and January 1, 2004, to have paragraph 1 applied
                      beginning with the next model year after its
                      election.  If such a manufacturer initiates the
                      production of automobiles in Mexico, it shall be
                      subject to subparagraph (b) on the date it initiates
                      such production;

                                   Annex 300-A                              

                 (d)  with respect to all manufacturers of automobiles not
                      producing automobiles in the territory of a Party,
                      paragraph 1 shall apply beginning with the next model
                      year after January 1, 1994; and

                 (e)  with respect to a manufacturer of automobiles covered
                      by subparagraph (a) or (c), paragraph 1 shall apply
                      beginning with the next model year after January 1,
                      2004, where the enterprise subject to the fuel
                      economy requirements for those automobiles under the
                      CAFE Act, has not made an election under subparagraph
                      (a) or (c).

            3.   The United States shall ensure that any measure it adopts
            pertaining to the definition of domestic production in the CAFE
            Act or its implementing regulations shall apply equally to
            value added in Canada or Mexico.

            4.   Nothing in this Appendix shall be construed to require the
            United States to make any changes in its fuel economy
            requirements for automobiles, or to prevent the United States
            from making any changes in its fuel economy requirements for
            automobiles that are otherwise consistent with this Appendix.

            5.   For greater certainty, the differences in treatment
            pursuant to paragraphs 1 through 3 shall not be considered to
            be inconsistent with Article 1103 (Investment - Most-Favored-
            Nation Treatment).

            6.    For purposes of this Appendix:

            automobile means "automobile" as defined in the CAFE Act and
            its implementing regulations;

            manufacturer means "manufacturer" as defined in the CAFE Act
            and its implementing regulations; and

            model year means "model year" as defined in the CAFE Act and
            its implementing regulations.

Title:Annex 300-B -- Textile and Apparel Goods
Author: White House
Document-Date: 29 Sept 1993
Content-Type: text/plain; CHARSET=US-ASCII
Content-Length:260651

                                      Annex 300-B

                               Textile and Apparel Goods


            Section 1:  Scope and Coverage

            1.   This Annex applies to the textile and apparel goods set
            out in Appendix 1.1.

            2.   In the event of any inconsistency between this Agreement
            and the Arrangement Regarding International Trade in Textiles
            (Multifiber Arrangement), as amended and extended, including
            any amendment or extension after January 1, 1994, or any other
            existing or future agreement applicable to trade in textile or
            apparel goods, this Agreement shall prevail to the extent of
            the inconsistency, unless the Parties agree otherwise.


            Section 2:  Tariff Elimination

            1.   Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, each Party
            shall progressively eliminate its customs duties on originating
            textile and apparel goods in accordance with its Schedule to
            Annex 302.2 (Tariff Elimination), and as set out for ease of
            reference in Appendix 2.1.

            2.   For purposes of this Annex: 

                 (a)  a textile or apparel good shall be considered an
                      originating good if the applicable change in tariff
                      classification set out in Chapter Four (Rules of
                      Origin) has been satisfied in the territory of one or
                      more of the Parties in accordance with Article 404
                      (Accumulation); and 

                 (b)  for purposes of determining which rate of customs
                      duty and staging category is applicable to an
                      originating textile or apparel good, a good shall be
                      considered a good of a Party  

                      (i)  as determined by each importing Party's
                           regulations, practices or procedures, except
                           that

                                   Annex 300-B                              

                      (ii) in the event of an agreement between the Parties
                           pursuant to Annex 311(1) (Country of Origin
                           Marking), as determined by such agreement.

            3.   An importing Party and an exporting Party may identify at
            any time particular textile and apparel goods that they
            mutually agree fall within:

                 (a)  hand-loomed fabrics of a cottage industry; 

                 (b)  hand-made cottage industry goods made of such hand-
                      loomed fabrics; or 

                 (c)  traditional folklore handicraft goods.

            The importing Party shall grant duty-free treatment to goods so
            identified, if certified by the competent authority of the
            exporting Party.

            4.    Appendix 2.4 applies to the Parties specified in that
            Appendix respecting the elimination of tariffs on certain
            textile and apparel goods.


            Section 3:  Import and Export Prohibitions, Restrictions and
            Consultation Levels

            1.   Each Party may maintain a prohibition, restriction or
            consultation level only in accordance with Appendix 3.1 or as
            otherwise provided in this Annex.

            2.   Each Party shall eliminate any prohibition, restriction or
            consultation level on a textile or apparel good that otherwise
            would be permitted under this Annex if that Party is required
            to eliminate such measure as a result of having integrated that
            good into the GATT as a result of commitments undertaken by
            that Party under any successor agreement to the Multifiber
            Arrangement.


            Section 4:  Bilateral Emergency Actions (Tariff Actions)

            1.   Subject to paragraphs 2 through 5 and during the
            transition period only, if, as a result of the reduction or
            elimination of a duty provided for in this Agreement, a textile
            or apparel good originating in the territory of a Party, or a
            good that has been integrated into the GATT pursuant to a
            commitment undertaken by a Party under any successor agreement

                                 Annex 300-B                                

            to the Multifiber Arrangement and entered under a tariff
            preference level set out in Appendix 6, is being imported into
            the territory of another Party in such increased quantities, in
            absolute terms or relative to the domestic market for that
            good, and under such conditions as to cause serious damage, or
            actual threat thereof, to a domestic industry producing a like
            or directly competitive good, the importing Party may, to the
            minimum extent necessary to remedy the damage or actual threat
            thereof:
             
                 (a)  suspend the further reduction of any rate of duty
                      provided for under this Agreement on the good; or

                 (b)  increase the rate of duty on the good to a level not
                      to exceed the lesser of

                      (i)  the most-favored-nation (MFN) applied rate of
                           duty in effect at the time the action is taken,
                           and

                      (ii) the MFN applied rate of duty in effect on
                           December 31, 1993.

            2.   In determining serious damage, or actual threat thereof,
            the Party:  

                 (a)  shall examine the effect of increased imports on the
                      particular industry, as reflected in changes in such
                      relevant economic variables as output, productivity,
                      utilization of capacity, inventories, market share,
                      exports, wages, employment, domestic prices, profits
                      and investment, none of which is necessarily
                      decisive; and 

                 (b)  shall not consider changes in technology or consumer
                      preference as factors supporting a determination of
                      serious damage or actual threat thereof.

            3.   A Party shall deliver without delay to any Party that may
            be affected by an emergency action taken under this Section
            written notice of its intent to take such action, and on
            request shall enter into consultations with that Party.

            4.   The following conditions and limitations apply to any
            emergency action taken under this Section:

                 (a)  no action may be maintained for a period exceeding
                      three years or, except with the consent of the Party

                                 Annex 300-B                                

                      against whose good the action is taken, have effect
                      beyond the expiration of the transition period;

                 (b)  no action may be taken by a Party against any
                      particular good originating in the territory of
                      another Party more than once during the transition
                      period; and

                 (c)  on termination of the action, the rate of duty shall
                      be the rate that, according to the Schedule for the
                      staged elimination of the tariff, would have been in
                      effect one year after the initiation of the action,
                      and beginning January 1 of the year following the
                      termination of the action, at the option of the Party
                      that has taken the action

                      (i)  the rate of duty shall conform to the applicable
                           rate set out in that Party's Schedule to Annex
                           302.2, or

                      (ii) the tariff shall be eliminated in equal annual
                           stages ending on the date set out in that
                           Party's Schedule to Annex 302.2 for the
                           elimination of the tariff.

            5.   The Party taking an action under this Section shall
            provide to the Party against whose good the action is taken
            mutually agreed trade liberalizing compensation in the form of
            concessions having substantially equivalent trade effects or
            equivalent to the value of the additional duties expected to
            result from the action.  Such concessions shall be limited to
            the textile and apparel goods set out in Appendix 1.1, unless
            the Parties otherwise agree.  If the Parties concerned are
            unable to agree on compensation, the exporting Party may take
            tariff action having trade effects substantially equivalent to
            the action taken under this Section against any goods imported
            from the Party that initiated the action under this Section. 
            The Party taking the tariff action shall only apply the action
            for the minimum period necessary to achieve the substantially
            equivalent effects.

            6.   For purposes of this Section, a good originating in the
            territory of a Party shall be determined in accordance with
            Section 2.2.

            7.   Paragraphs 1 through 5 shall also apply to textile and
            apparel goods described in Appendix 2.4.

                                  Annex 300-B                               

            Section 5:  Bilateral Emergency Actions (Quantitative
            Restrictions)

            1.   Subject to Appendix 5.1, a Party may take bilateral
            emergency action against non-originating textile or apparel
            goods of another Party in accordance with this Section and
            Appendix 3.1.

            2.   If a Party considers that a non-originating textile or
            apparel good, including a good entered under a tariff
            preference level set out in Appendix 6, is being imported into
            its territory from a Party in such increased quantities, in
            absolute terms or relative to the domestic market for that
            good, under such conditions as to cause serious damage, or
            actual threat thereof, to a domestic industry producing a like
            or directly competitive good in the importing Party, the
            importing Party may request consultations with the other Party
            with a view to eliminating the serious damage or actual threat
            thereof.

            3.   The Party requesting consultations shall include in its
            request for consultations the reasons that it considers
            demonstrate that such serious damage or actual threat thereof
            to its domestic industry is resulting from the imports of the
            other Party, including the latest data concerning such damage
            or threat.

            4.   In determining serious damage, or actual threat thereof,
            the Party shall apply Section 4(2).

            5.   The Parties concerned shall begin consultations within 60
            days of the request for consultations and shall endeavor to
            agree on a mutually satisfactory level of restraint on exports
            of the particular good within 90 days of the request, unless
            the consulting Parties agree to extend this period.  In
            reaching a mutually satisfactory level of export restraint, the
            consulting Parties shall:

                 (a)  consider the situation in the market in the importing
                      Party;

                 (b)  consider the history of trade in textile and apparel
                      goods between the consulting Parties, including
                      previous levels of trade; and

                 (c)  seek to ensure that the textile and apparel goods
                      imported from the territory of the exporting Party
                      are accorded equitable treatment as compared with

                                    Annex 300-B                             

                      treatment accorded like textile and apparel goods
                      from non-Party suppliers.

            6.   If the consulting Parties do not agree on a mutually
            satisfactory level of export restraint, the Party requesting
            consultations may impose annual quantitative restrictions on
            imports of the good from the territory of the other Party,
            subject to paragraphs 7 through 13. 

            7.   Any quantitative restriction imposed under paragraph 6
                 shall be no less than the sum of:

                 (a)  the quantity of the good imported into the territory
                      of the Party requesting consultations from the Party
                      that would be affected by the restriction, as
                      reported in general import statistics of the
                      importing Party, during the first 12 of the most
                      recent 14 months preceding the month in which the
                      request for consultations was made; and

                 (b)  20 percent of such quantity for cotton, man-made
                      fiber and other non-cotton vegetable fiber good
                      categories, and six percent for wool good categories.

            8.   The first period of any quantitative restriction imposed
            under paragraph 6 shall begin on the day after the date on
            which the request for consultations was made and terminate at
            the end of the calendar year in which the quantitative
            restriction is imposed.  Any quantitative restriction that is
            imposed for a first period of less than 12 months shall be
            prorated to correspond to the time remaining in the calendar
            year in which the restriction is imposed, and the prorated
            amount may be adjusted in accordance with the flexibility
            provisions set out in paragraphs 8(b) and (c) of Appendix 3.1.

            9.   For each successive calendar year that the quantitative
            restriction imposed under paragraph 6 remains in effect, the
            Party imposing it shall: 

                 (a)  increase it by six percent for cotton, man-made fiber
                      and non-cotton vegetable fiber textile and apparel
                      goods, and by two percent for wool textile and
                      apparel goods, and

                 (b)  accelerate the growth rate for quantitative
                      restrictions on cotton, man-made fiber and non-cotton
                      vegetable fiber textile and apparel goods if required

                                    Annex 300-B                             

                      by any successor agreement to the Multifiber
                      Arrangement, 

            and the flexibility provisions set out in paragraphs 8(b) and
            (c) of Appendix 3.1 apply. 

            10.  A quantitative restriction imposed under paragraph 6
            before July 1 in any calendar year may remain in effect for the
            remainder of that year, plus two additional calendar years.  
            Such a restriction imposed on or after July 1 in any calendar
            year may remain in effect for the remainder of that year, plus
            three additional calendar years.  No such restriction may
            remain in effect beyond the transition period.

            11.  No Party may take an emergency action under this Section
            with respect to any particular textile or apparel non-
            originating good against which a quantitative restriction is in
            effect.

            12.  No Party may adopt or maintain a quantitative restriction
            under this Section on a particular textile or apparel good that
            otherwise would be permitted under this Annex, if that Party is
            required to eliminate such measure as a result of having
            integrated that good into the GATT as a result of commitments
            undertaken by that Party pursuant to any successor agreement to
            the Multifiber Arrangement.

            13.  No Party may take a bilateral emergency action after the
            expiration of the transition period with respect to cases of
            serious damage, or actual threat thereof, to domestic industry
            arising from the operation of this Agreement except with the
            consent of the Party against whose good the action would be
            taken.


            Section 6:  Special Provisions

                 Appendix 6 sets out special provisions applicable to
            certain textile and apparel goods.


            Section 7:  Review and Revision of Rules of Origin

            1.   (a)  The Parties shall monitor the effects of the
                      application of the rule of origin set out in Annex
                      401 applicable to goods of subheading 6212.10 of the
                      Harmonized System (HS).  No earlier than April 1,
                      1995, a Party may request consultations with the

                                   Annex 300-B                              

                      other Parties to seek a mutually satisfactory
                      solution to any difficulties that it considers result
                      from the application of that rule of origin.

                 (b)  If the consulting Parties fail to reach a mutually
                      satisfactory solution within 90 days of a request for
                      consultations, on request of any Party the rule of
                      origin applicable to subheading 6212.10 shall change
                      to the rule of origin set out in Annex 401 applicable
                      to headings 62.06 through 62.11 with respect to trade
                      between the requesting Party and the other Parties.  
                      Any such change shall be effective 180 days after the
                      request.  The Parties shall take measures to ease any
                      resulting administrative burden on producers.

                 (c)  Unless the Parties agree otherwise, at any time after
                      the completion of consultations held under
                      subparagraph (a) and during the transition period
                      only, a Party that has requested such consultations
                      may make one additional request for consultations
                      under subparagraph (a) and take action under
                      subparagraph (b).

            2.   (a)  On request of any Party, the Parties shall consult to
                      consider whether particular goods should be subject
                      to different rules of origin to address issues of
                      availability of supply of fibers, yarns or fabrics in
                      the free trade area.

                 (b)  In the consultations, each Party shall consider all
                      data presented by a Party showing substantial
                      production in its territory of the particular good. 
                      The consulting Parties shall consider that
                      substantial production has been shown if that Party
                      demonstrates that its domestic producers are capable
                      of supplying commercial quantities of the good in a
                      timely manner.

                 (c)  The Parties shall endeavor to conclude consultations
                      within 60 days of the request.  An agreement between
                      two or more Parties resulting from the consultations
                      shall supersede any prior rule of origin for such
                      good when approved by each such Party in accordance
                      with Article 2202(2) (Amendments).  If no agreement
                      is reached, a Party may have recourse to paragraph
                      B.8 of Appendix 6.

                                    Annex 300-B                             

                 (d)  Further to subparagraph (a), on request of any Party,
                      the Parties shall consult to consider whether the
                      rules of origin set out in Annex 401 applicable to
                      the following provisions should be amended in view of
                      increasing availability of supply of relevant yarns
                      or fabrics within the free trade area:

                      (i)  Canadian tariff item 5407.60.10, Mexican tariff
                           item 5407.60.02 and U.S. tariff item 5407.60.22, 


                      (ii) provisions (a) through (i) of the rule of origin
                           for subheadings 6205.20 through 6205.30, 

                      (iii)     goods of subheadings 6107.21, 6108.21 and
                                6108.31, wholly of fabric of Canadian
                                tariff item 6002.92.10, Mexican tariff item
                                6002.92.01, and U.S. tariff item
                                6002.92.10, and exclusive of collar, cuffs,
                                waistband, elastic or lace; 

                      (iv) note 2 to Chapter 62 of Annex 401, and 

                      (v)  Canadian tariff item 6303.92.10, Mexican tariff
                           item 6303.92.01 and U.S. tariff item 6303.92.aa.

            3.   The Parties shall review the rules of origin applicable to
            textile and apparel goods within five years of the date of
            entry into force of this Agreement to take into account the
            effect of increasing global competition on textile and apparel
            goods and the implications of any integration into the GATT of
            textile and apparel goods pursuant to any successor agreement
            to the Multifiber Arrangement.  The Parties shall give
            particular consideration to operative rules in other economic
            association or integration agreements and developments relating
            to textile and apparel production and trade. 

            Section 8:  Labelling Requirements

                 The Subcommittee on Labelling of Textile and Apparel Goods
            established under Article 913(5) shall perform the functions
            set out in Annex 913.5.a-4. 


            Section 9:  Trade in Worn Clothing and Other Worn Articles

                               Annex 300-B                                  

            1.   The Parties hereby establish a Committee on Trade in Worn
            Clothing, comprising representatives of each Party.  The
            Committee shall:

                 (a)  include or consult with a broadly representative
                      group drawn from the manufacturing and retailing
                      sectors in each Party; and

                 (b)  act in a transparent manner and, if no member of the
                      Committee formally objects, make recommendations to
                      the Commission.

            2.   The Committee shall assess the potential benefits and
            risks that may result from the elimination of existing
            restrictions on trade between the Parties in worn clothing and
            other worn articles, as defined in heading 63.09 of the HS,
            including the effects on business and employment opportunities,
            and on the market for textile and apparel goods in each Party.

            3.   A Party may maintain restrictions in effect on the date of
            entry into force of this Agreement on the importation of worn
            clothing and other worn articles classified under  heading
            63.09 of the HS, unless the Parties agree otherwise on the
            basis of the recommendations presented to the Commission by the
            Committee on Trade in Worn Clothing.


            Section 10:  Definitions

            For purposes of this Annex:

            average yarn number, as applied to woven fabrics of cotton or
            man-made fibers, means the average yarn number of the yarns
            contained therein.  In computing the average yarn number, the
            length of the yarn is considered to be equal to the distance
            covered by it in the fabric, with all clipped yarn being
            measured as if continuous and with the count being taken of the
            total single yarns in the fabric including the single yarns in
            any multiple (folded) or cabled yarns.  The weight shall be
            taken after any excessive sizing is removed by boiling or other
            suitable process.  Any one of the following formulas can be
            used to determine the average yarn number:

                      N =   BYT   ,   100T   , BT   or    ST 
                           1,000       Z'      Z          10
    

                 when:
                                Annex 300-B                                 

                       N is the average yarn number,
                       B is the breadth (width) of the fabric in
            centimeters,
                       Y is the meters (linear) of the fabric per
            kilogram,
                       T is the total single yarns per square centimeter,
                       S is the square meters of fabric per kilogram,
                       Z is the grams per linear meter of fabric, and
                       Z' is the grams per square meter of fabric.

                 Fractions in the resulting "average yarn number" shall be
            disregarded.  

            category means a grouping of textile or apparel goods, and as
            set out in Appendix 10.1 for the Parties specified in that
            Appendix;

            consultation level means a level of exports for a particular
            textile or apparel good that may be adjusted in accordance with
            paragraph 7 of Appendix 3.1 and includes a designated
            consultation level, but does not include a specific limit;

            exporting Party means the Party from whose territory a textile
            or apparel good is exported;

            flexibility provisions means the provisions set out in
            paragraphs 8(b) and (c) of Appendix 3.1; 

            importing Party means the Party into whose territory a textile
            or apparel good is imported;

            integrated into the GATT means subject to the obligations of
            the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, an agreement under
            the GATT or any successor agreements;

            specific limit means a level of exports for a particular
            textile or apparel good that may be adjusted in accordance with
            paragraph 8 of Appendix 3.1;

            square meters equivalent (SME) means that unit of measurement
            that results from the application of the conversion factors set
            out in Schedule 3.1.3 to a primary unit of measure such as
            unit, dozen or kilogram;

            tariff preference level means a mechanism that provides for the
            application of a customs duty at a preferential rate to imports
            of a particular good up to a specified quantity, and at a

                                    Annex 300-B                             

            different rate to imports of that good that exceed that
            quantity;

            transition period means the 10-year period beginning on January
            1, 1994; and

            wool apparel means:

                 (a)   apparel in chief weight of wool;

                 (b)   woven apparel in chief weight of man-made fibers
                       containing 36 percent or more by weight of wool;
                       and

                 (c)   knitted or crocheted apparel in chief weight of
                       man-made fibers containing 23 percent or more by
                       weight of wool.

                                    Annex 300-B                             

                                      Appendix 1.1

                          List of Goods Covered by Annex 300-B

            The descriptions listed in this Appendix are provided for ease
            of reference only.  For legal purposes, coverage shall be
            determined according to the terms of the Harmonized System.

            HS No.     Description

            Chapter 30  Pharmaceutical Products

            3005 90    Wadding, gauze, bandages and the like

            Chapter 39  Plastics and articles thereof

            ex 3921 12 (Woven, knitted or non-woven fabric coated, covered
            or laminated with plastics)
            ex 3921 13
            ex 3921 90

            Chapter 42  Articles of leather; saddlery and harness; travel
            goods, handbags and similar containers

            ex 4202 12 (Luggage, handbags and flatgoods with an outer
            surface predominantly of textile materials)
            ex 4202 22
            ex 4202 32
            ex 4202 92

            Chapter 50  Silk

            5004 00    Silk yarn (other than yarn spun from silk waste)
                       not for retail sale
            5005 00    Yarn spun from silk waste, not for retail sale 
            5006 00    Silk yarn and yarn spun from silk waste, for retail
                       sale; silk-worm gut
            5007 10    Woven fabric of noil silk
            5007 20    Woven fabric of silk or silk waste, other than noil
                       silk, 85% or more of such fibers
            5007 90    Woven fabric of silk, nes

            Chapter 51  Wool, fine or coarse animal hair, horsehair yarn
            and fabric

            5105 10    Carded wool
            5105 21    Combed wool in fragments

                                 Annex 300-B                                

            5105 29    Wool tops and other combed wool, other than combed
                       wool in fragments
            5105 30    Fine animal hair, carded or combed
            5106 10    Yarn of carded wool,  85% wool, not for retail sale
            5106 20    Yarn of carded, wool, <85% wool, not for retail
                       sale
            5107 10    Yarn of combed wool,  85% wool, not for retail sale
            5107 20    Yarn of combed wool, <85% wool, not for retail sale
            5108 10    Yarn of carded fine animal hair, not for retail
                       sale
            5108 20    Yarn of combed fine animal hair, not for retail
                       sale
            5109 10    Yarn of wool or of fine animal hair,  85% wool and
                       fine animal hair, for retail sale
            5109 90    Yarn of wool/of fine animal hair, <85% wool and
                       fine animal hair, for retail sale
            5110 00    Yarn of coarse animal hair or of horsehair
            5111 11    Woven fabric of carded wool or fine animal hair,
                        85% wool and fine animal hair,   300 g/m2
            5111 19    Woven fabric of carded wool or fine animal hair,
                        85% wool or fine animal hair, >300 g/m2
            5111 20    Woven fabric of carded wool or fine animal hair,
                       <85% wool or fine animal hair, with man-made fibers
            5111 30    Woven fabric of carded wool or fine animal hair,
                       <85% wool or fine animal hair, with man-made fibers
            5111 90    Woven fabric of carded wool or fine animal hair,
                       <85% wool or fine animal hair, nes
            5112 11    Woven fabric of combed wool or fine animal hair,
                        85% wool or fine animal hair,  200 g/m2
            5112 19    Woven fabric of combed wool or fine animal hair,
                        85% wool or fine animal hair, >200 g/m2
            5112 20    Woven fabric of combed wool or fine animal hair,
                       <85% wool or fine animal hair, with man-made
                       filament
            5112 30    Woven fabric of combed wool or fine animal hair,
                       <85% wool or fine animal hair, with man-made fibers
            5112 90    Woven fabric of combed wool or fine animal hair,
                       <85% wool or fine animal hair, nes
            5113 00    Woven fabric of coarse animal hair or of horsehair

            Chapter 52  Cotton

            5203 00    Cotton, carded or combed
            5204 11    Cotton sewing thread  85% cotton, not for retail
                       sale
            5204 19    Cotton sewing thread, <85% cotton, not for retail
                       sale
            5204 20    Cotton sewing thread, for retail sale

                              Annex 300-B                                   

            HS No.     Description            HS No.     Description

            5205 11    Cotton yarn,  85% cotton, single, uncombed,  714.29
                       decitex, not for retail sale
            5205 12    Cotton yarn,  85% cotton, single, uncombed, 714.29
                       >decitex 232.56, not for retail sale
            5205 13    Cotton yarn,  85% cotton, single, uncombed,
                       232.56>decitex 192.31, not for retail sale
            5205 14    Cotton yarn,  85% cotton, single, uncombed, 192.31
                       >decitex 125, not for retail sale
            5205 15    Cotton yarn,  85% cotton, single, uncombed, <125
                       decitex, not for retail sale
            5205 21    Cotton yarn,  85% cotton, single, combed,  714.29,
                       not for retail sale
            5205 22    Cotton yarn,  85% cotton, single, combed, 714.29
                       >decitex 232.56, not for retail sale
            5205 23    Cotton yarn,  85% cotton, single, combed, 232.56
                       >decitex 192.31, not for retail sale
            5205 24    Cotton yarn,  85% cotton, single, combed, 192.31
                       >decitex 125, not for retail sale
            5205 25    Cotton yarn,  85% cotton, single, combed, <125
                       decitex, not for retail sale
            5205 31    Cotton yarn,  85% cotton, multiple, uncombed,
                        714.29 decitex, not for retail sale, nes
            5205 32    Cotton yarn,  85% cotton, multiple, uncombed,
                       714.29 >decitex 232.56, not for retail sale, nes
            5205 33    Cotton yarn,  85% cotton, multiple, uncombed,
                       232.56 >decitex 192.31, not for retail sale, nes
            5205 34    Cotton yarn,  85% cotton, multiple, uncombed,
                       192.31 >decitex 125, not for retail sale, nes
            5205 35    Cotton yarn,  85% cotton, multiple, uncombed, <125
                       decitex, not for retail sale, nes
            5205 41    Cotton yarn,  85% cotton, multiple, combed,  714.29
                       decitex, not for retail sale, nes
            5205 42    Cotton yarn,  85% cotton, multiple, combed, 714.29
                       >decitex 232.56, not for retail sale, nes
            5205 43    Cotton yarn,  85% cotton, multiple, combed, 232.56
                       >decitex 192.31, not for retail sale, nes
            5205 44    Cotton yarn,  85% cotton, multiple, combed, 192.31
                       >decitex 125, not for retail sale, nes
            5205 45    Cotton yarn,  85% cotton, multiple, combed, <125
                       decitex, not for retail sale, nes
            5206 11    Cotton yarn, <85% cotton, single, uncombed,
                        714.29, not for retail sale
            5206 12    Cotton yarn, <85% cotton, single, uncombed, 714.29
                       >decitex 232.56, not for retail sale
            5206 13    Cotton yarn, <85% cotton, single, uncombed, 232.56
                       >decitex 192.31, not for retail sale

                                       Annex 300-B                          

            HS No.     Description            HS No.     Description

            5206 14    Cotton yarn, <85% cotton, single, uncombed, 192.31
                       >decitex 125, not for retail sale
            5206 15    Cotton yarn, <85% cotton, single, uncombed, <125
                       decitex, not for retail sale
            5206 21    Cotton yarn, <85% cotton, single, combed,  714.29
                       decitex, not for retail sale
            5206 22    Cotton yarn, <85% cotton, single, combed, 714.29
                       >decitex 232.56, not for retail sale
            5206 23    Cotton yarn, <85% cotton, single, combed, 232.56
                       >decitex 192.31, not for retail sale
            5206 24    Cotton yarn, <85% cotton, single, combed, 192.31
                       >decitex 125, not for retail sale
            5206 25    Cotton yarn, <85% cotton, single, combed, <125
                       decitex, not for retail sale
            5206 31    Cotton yarn, <85% cotton, multiple, uncombed,
                        714.29, not for retail sale, nes
            5206 32    Cotton yarn, <85% cotton, multiple, uncombed,
                       714.29 >decitex 232.56, not for retail sale, nes
            5206 33    Cotton yarn, <85% cotton, multiple, uncombed,
                       232.56 >decitex 192.31, not for retail sale, nes
            5206 34    Cotton yarn, <85% cotton, multiple, uncombed,
                       192.31 >decitex 125, not for retail sale, nes
            5206 35    Cotton yarn, <85% cotton, multiple, uncombed, <125
                       decitex, not for retail sale, nes
            5206 41    Cotton yarn, <85% cotton, multiple, combed,
                        714.29, not for retail sale, nes
            5206 42    Cotton yarn, <85% cotton, multiple, combed, 714.29
                       >decitex 232.56, not for retail sale, nes
            5206 43    Cotton yarn, <85% cotton, multiple, combed, 232.56
                       >decitex 192.31, not for retail sale, nes
            5206 44    Cotton yarn, <85% cotton, multiple, combed, 192.31
                       >decitex 125, not for retail sale, nes
            5206 45    Cotton yarn, <85% cotton, multiple, combed, <125
                       decitex, not for retail sale, nes
            5207 10    Cotton yarn (other than sewing thread) 85% cotton,
                       for retail sale
            5207 90    Cotton yarn (other than sewing thread) <85% cotton,
                       for retail sale
            5208 11    Plain weave cotton fabric,  85% cotton,  100g/m2,
                       unbleached
            5208 12    Plain weave cotton fabric,  85% cotton, >100g/m2,
                        200g/m2, unbleached
            5208 13    Twill weave cotton fabric,  85% cotton,  200g/m2,
                       unbleached
            5208 19    Woven fabric of cotton,  85% cotton,  200g/m2,
                       unbleached, nes

                                Annex 300-B                                 

            HS No.     Description            HS No.     Description

            5208 21    Plain weave cotton fabric,  85% cotton,  100g/m2,
                       bleached
            5208 22    Plain weave cotton fabric,  85% cotton, >100g/m2,
                        200g/m2, bleached
            5208 23    Twill weave cotton fabric,  85% cotton,  200g/m2,
                       bleached
            5208 29    Woven fabric of cotton,  85% cotton,  200g/m2,
                       bleached, nes
            5208 31    Plain weave cotton fabric,  85% cotton,  100g/m2,
                       dyed
            5208 32    Plain weave cotton fabric,  85% cotton, >100g/m2,  
                       200g/m2, dyed
            5208 33    Twill weave cotton fabric,  85% cotton,  200g/m2,
                       dyed
            5208 39    Woven fabric of cotton,  85% cotton,  200g/m2,
                       dyed, nes
            5208 41    Plain weave cotton fabric,  85% cotton,  100g/m2,
                       yarn dyed
            5208 42    Plain weave cotton fabric,  85% cotton, >100g/m2,
                        200 g/m2, yarn dyed
            5208 43    Twill weave cotton fabric,  85% cotton,  200g/m2,
                       yarn dyed
            5208 49    Woven fabric of cotton,  85% cotton,  200g/m2, yarn
                       dyed, nes
            5208 51    Plain weave cotton fabric,  85% cotton,  100g/m2,
                       printed
            5208 52    Plain weave cotton fabric,  85% cotton, >100g/m2,
                        200 g/m2, printed
            5208 53    Twill weave cotton fabric,  85% cotton,  200g/m2,
                       printed
            5208 59    Woven fabric of cotton,  85% cotton,   200g/m2,
                       printed, nes
            5209 11    Plain weave cotton fabric,  85% cotton, >200g/m2,
                       unbleached
            5209 12    Twill weave cotton fabric,  85% cotton, >200g/m2,
                       unbleached
            5209 19    Woven fabric of cotton,  85% cotton, >200g/m2,
                       unbleached, nes
            5209 21    Plain weave cotton fabric,  85% cotton, >200g/m2,
                       bleached
            5209 22    Twill weave cotton fabric,  85% cotton, >200g/m2,
                       bleached
            5209 29    Woven fabric of cotton,  85% cotton, >200g/m2,
                       bleached, nes
            5209 31    Plain weave cotton fabric,  85% cotton, >200g/m2,
                       dyed

                             Annex 300-B                                    

            HS No.     Description            HS No.     Description

            5209 32    Twill weave cotton fabric,  85% cotton, >200g/m2,
                       dyed
            5209 39    Woven fabric of cotton,  85% cotton, >200g/m2,
                       dyed, nes
            5209 41    Plain weave cotton fabric,  85% cotton, >200g/m2,
                       yarn dyed
            5209 42    Blue denim fabric of cotton,  85% cotton, >200g/m2
            5209 43    Twill weave cotton fabric, other than denim, 85%
                       cotton, >200g/m2, yarn dyed
            5209 49    Woven fabric of cotton,  85% cotton, >200g/m2, yarn
                       dyed, nes
            5209 51    Plain weave cotton fabric,  85% cotton, >200g/m2,
                       printed
            5209 52    Twill weave cotton fabric,  85% cotton, >200g/m2,
                       printed
            5209 59    Woven fabric of cotton,  85% cotton, >200g/m2,
                       printed, nes
            5210 11    Plain weave cotton fabric, <85% cotton, with man-
                       made fiber,  200g/m2, unbleached
            5210 12    Twill weave cotton fabric, <85% cotton, with man-
                       made fiber,  200g/m2, unbleached
            5210 19    Woven fabric of cotton, <85% cotton, with man-made
                       fiber,  200g/m2, unbleached, nes
            5210 21    Plain weave cotton fabric, <85% cotton, with man-
                       made fiber,  200g/m2, bleached
            5210 22    Twill weave cotton fabric, <85% cotton, with man-
                       made fiber,  200g/m2, bleached
            5210 29    Woven fabric of cotton, <85% cotton, with man-made
                       fiber,  200g/m2, bleached, nes
            5210 31    Plain weave cotton fabric, <85% cotton, with man-
                       made fiber,  200g/m2, dyed
            5210 32    Twill weave cotton fabric, <85% cotton, with man-
                       made fiber,  200g/m2, dyed
            5210 39    Woven fabric of cotton, <85% cotton, with man-made
                       fiber,  200g/m2, dyed, nes
            5210 41    Plain weave cotton fabric, <85% cotton, with man-
                       made fiber,  200g/m2, yarn dyed
            5210 42    Twill weave cotton fabric, <85% cotton, with man-
                       made fiber,  200g/m2, yarn dyed
            5210 49    Woven fabric of cotton, <85% cotton, with man-made
                       fiber,  200g/m2, yarn dyed, nes
            5210 51    Plain weave cotton fabric, <85% cotton, with man-
                       made fiber,  200g/m2, printed
            5210 52    Twill weave cotton fabric, <85% cotton, with man-
                       made fiber,  200g/m2, printed
            5210 59    Woven fabric of cotton, <85% cotton, with man-made
                       fiber,  200g/m2, printed, nes

                               Annex 300-B                                  

            HS No.     Description            HS No.     Description

            5211 11    Plain weave cotton fabric, <85% cotton, with man-
                       made fiber, >200g/m2, unbleached
            5211 12    Twill weave cotton fabric, <85% cotton, with man-
                       made fiber, >200g/m2, unbleached
            5211 19    Woven fabric of cotton, <85% cotton, with man-made
                       fiber, >200g/m2, unbleached, nes
            5211 21    Plain weave cotton fabric, <85% cotton, with man-
                       made fiber, >200g/m2, bleached
            5211 22    Twill weave cotton fabric, <85% cotton, with man-
                       made fiber, >200g/m2, bleached
            5211 29    Woven fabric of cotton, <85% cotton, with man-made
                       fiber, >200g/m2, bleached, nes
            5211 31    Plain weave cotton fabric, <85% cotton, with man-
                       made fiber, >200g/m2, dyed
            5211 32    Twill weave cotton fabric, <85% cotton, with man-
                       made fiber, >200g/m2, dyed
            5211 39    Woven fabric of cotton, <85% cotton, with man-made
                       fiber, >200g/m2, dyed, nes
            5211 41    Plain weave cotton fabric, <85% cotton, with man-
                       made fiber, >200g/m2, yarn dyed
            5211 42    Blue denim fabric of cotton, <85% cotton, with man-
                       made fiber, >200g/m2
            5211 43    Twill weave cotton fabric, other than denim, <85%
                       cotton, with man-made fiber, >200g/m2, yarn dyed
            5211 49    Woven fabric of cotton, <85% cotton, with man-made
                       fiber, >200g/m2, yarn dyed, nes
            5211 51    Plain weave cotton fabric, <85% cotton, with man-
                       made fiber, >200g/m2, printed
            5211 52    Twill weave cotton fabric, <85% cotton, with man-
                       made fiber, >200g/m2, printed
            5211 59    Woven fabric of cotton, <85% cotton, with man-made
                       fiber, >200g/m2, printed, nes
            5212 11    Woven fabric of cotton, weighing  200g/m2,
                       unbleached, nes
            5212 12    Woven fabric of cotton, weighing  200g/m2,
                       bleached, nes
            5212 13    Woven fabric of cotton, weighing  200g/m2, dyed,
                       nes
            5212 14    Woven fabric of cotton,  200g/m2, of yarns of
                       different colors, nes
            5212 15    Woven fabric of cotton, weighing  200g/m2, printed,
                       nes
            5212 21    Woven fabric of cotton, weighing >200g/m2,
                       unbleached, nes
            5212 22    Woven fabric of cotton, weighing >200g/m2,
                       bleached, nes

                           Annex 300-B                                      

            HS No.     Description            HS No.     Description

            5212 23    Woven fabric of cotton, weighing >200g/m2, dyed,
                       nes
            5212 24    Woven fabric of cotton, >200g/m2, of yarns of
                       different colors, nes
            5212 25    Woven fabric of cotton, weighing >200g/m2, printed,
                       nes 

            Chapter 53  Other vegetable textile fibers; paper yarn and
            woven fabric of paper yarn

            5306 10    Flax yarn, single
            5306 20    Flax yarn, multiple 
            5307 10    Yarn of jute or of other textile bast fibers,
                       single
            5307 20    Yarn of jute or other textile bast fibers, multiple

            5308 20    True hemp yarn
            5308 90    Yarn of other vegetable textile fibers
            5309 11    Woven fabric,  85% flax, unbleached or bleached
            5309 19    Woven fabric,  85% flax, other than unbleached or
                       bleached
            5309 21    Woven fabric of flax, <85% flax, unbleached or
                       bleached
            5309 29    Woven fabric of flax, <85% flax, other than
                       unbleached or bleached
            5310 10    Woven fabric of jute or of other textile bast
                       fibers, unbleached
            5310 90    Woven fabric of jute or of other textile bast
                       fibers, other than unbleached
            5311 00    Woven fabric of other vegetable textile fibers;
                       woven fabric of paper yarn 

            Chapter 54  Man-made filaments

            5401 10    Sewing thread of synthetic filaments
            5401 20    Sewing thread of artificial filaments
            5402 10    High tenacity yarn (other than sewing thread),
                       nylon or other polyamide fiber, not for retail sale
            5402 20    High tenacity yarn (other than sewing thread), of
                       polyester filaments, not for retail sale
            5402 31    Textured yarn nes, of nylon or other polyamide
                       fiber, 50 tex/single yarn, not for retail sale
            5402 32    Textured yarn nes, of nylon or other polyamide
                       fiber,>50 tex/single yarn, not for retail sale
            5402 33    Textured yarn nes, of polyester filaments, not for
                       retail sale

                              Annex 300-B                                   

            HS No.     Description            HS No.     Description

            5402 39    Textured yarn of synthetic filaments, nes, not for
                       retail sale
            5402 41    Yarn of nylon or other polyamide fiber, single,
                       untwisted, nes, not for retail sale
            5402 42    Yarn of polyester filaments, partially oriented,
                       single, nes, not for retail sale
            5402 43    Yarn of polyester filaments, single, untwisted,
                       nes, not for retail sale
            5402 49    Yarn of synthetic filaments, single, untwisted,
                       nes, not for retail sale
            5402 51    Yarn of nylon or other polyamide fiber, single, >50
                       turns per meter, not for retail sale
            5402 52    Yarn of polyester filaments, single, >50 turns per
                       meter, not for retail sale
            5402 59    Yarn of synthetic filaments, single, >50 turns per
                       meter, nes, not for retail sale
            5402 61    Yarn of nylon or other polyamide fiber, multiple,
                       nes, not for retail sale
            5402 62    Yarn of polyester filaments, multiple, nes, not for
                       retail sale
            5402 69    Yarn of synthetic filaments, multiple, nes, not for
                       retail sale
            5403 10    High tenacity yarn (other than sewing thread), of
                       viscose rayon filaments, not for retail sale
            5403 20    Textured yarn nes, of artificial filaments, not for
                       retail sale
            5403 31    Yarn of viscose rayon filaments, single, untwisted,
                       nes, not for retail sale
            5403 32    Yarn of viscose rayon filaments, single, >120 turns
                       per meter, nes, not for retail sale
            5403 33    Yarn of cellulose acetate filaments, single, nes,
                       not for retail sale
            5403 39    Yarn of artificial filaments, single, nes, not for
                       retail sale
            5403 41    Yarn of viscose rayon filaments, multiple, nes, not
                       for retail sale
            5403 42    Yarn of cellulose acetate filaments, multiple, nes,
                       not for retail sale
            5403 49    Yarn of artificial filaments, multiple, nes, not
                       for retail sale
            5404 10    Synthetic monofilament,  67 decitex, no cross
                       sectional dimension >1 mm
            5404 90    Strip and the like of synthetic textile material of
                       an apparent width   5mm
            5405 00    Artificial monofil, 67 decitex, cross sectional
                       dimension >1mm; strip of art. tex. mat. width  5mm


                               Annex 300-B                                  

            HS No.     Description            HS No.     Description

            5406 10    Yarn of synthetic filaments (other than sewing
                       thread), for retail sale
            5406 20    Yarn of artificial filaments (other than sewing
                       thread), for retail sale
            5407 10    Woven fabric of high tenacity filament yarn of
                       nylon or other polyamides, or polyester
            5407 20    Woven fabric obtained from strip or the like of
                       synthetic textile materials
            5407 30    Fabric specified in Note 9 Section XI (layers of
                       parallel synthetic textile yarn)
            5407 41    Woven fabric,  85% nylon or other polyamide
                       filaments, unbleached or bleached, nes
            5407 42    Woven fabric,  85% nylon or other polyamide
                       filaments, dyed, nes
            5407 43    Woven fabric,  85% nylon or other polyamide
                       filaments, yarn dyed, nes
            5407 44    Woven fabric,  85% nylon or other polyamide
                       filaments, printed, nes
            5407 51    Woven fabric,  85% textured polyester filaments,
                       unbleached or bleached, nes
            5407 52    Woven fabric,  85% textured polyester filaments,
                       dyed, nes
            5407 53    Woven fabric,  85% textured polyester filaments,
                       yarn dyed, nes
            5407 54    Woven fabric,  85% textured polyester filaments,
                       printed, nes
            5407 60    Woven fabric,  85% non-textured polyester
                       filaments, nes 
            5407 71    Woven fabric,  85% synthetic filaments, unbleached
                       or bleached, nes
            5407 72    Woven fabric,  85% synthetic filaments, dyed, nes
            5407 73    Woven fabric,  85% synthetic filaments, yarn dyed,
                       nes
            5407 74    Woven fabric,  85% synthetic filaments, printed,
                       nes
            5407 81    Woven fabric of synthetic filaments, <85% syn.
                       filaments, with cotton, unbl or bl, nes
            5407 82    Woven fabric of synthetic filaments, <85% with
                       cotton, dyed, nes
            5407 83    Woven fabric of synthetic filaments, <85% with
                       cotton, yarn dyed, nes
            5407 84    Woven fabric of synthetic filaments, <85% with
                       cotton, printed, nes
            5407 91    Woven fabric of synthetic filaments, unbleached or
                       bleached, nes
            5407 92    Woven fabric of synthetic filaments, dyed, nes
            5407 93    Woven fabric of synthetic filaments, yarn dyed, nes

                                  Annex 300-B                               

            HS No.     Description            HS No.     Description

            5407 94    Woven fabric of synthetic filaments, printed, nes
            5408 10    Woven fabric of high tenacity filament yarn of
                       viscose rayon
            5408 21    Woven fabric,  85% artificial filament or strip,
                       unbleached or bleached, nes
            5408 22    Woven fabric,  85% artificial filament or strip,
                       dyed, nes
            5408 23    Woven fabric,  85% artificial filament or strip,
                       yarn dyed, nes
            5408 24    Woven fabric,  85% artificial filament or strip,
                       printed, nes
            5408 31    Woven fabric of artificial filaments, unbleached or
                       bleached, nes
            5408 32    Woven fabric of artificial filaments, dyed, nes
            5408 33    Woven fabric of artificial filaments, yarn dyed,
                       nes
            5408 34    Woven fabric of artificial filaments, printed, nes 

            Chapter 55  Man-made staple fibers

            5501 10    Filament tow of nylon or other polyamides
            5501 20    Filament tow of polyesters
            5501 30    Filament tow of acrylic or modacrylic
            5501 90    Synthetic filament tow, nes
            5502 00    Artificial filament tow
            5503 10    Staple fibers of nylon or other polyamides, not
                       carded or combed 
            5503 20    Staple fibers of polyesters, not carded or combed 
            5503 30    Staple fibers of acrylic or modacrylic, not carded
                       or combed 
            5503 40    Staple fibers of polypropylene, not carded or
                       combed
            5503 90    Synthetic staple fibers, not carded or combed, nes
            5504 10    Staple fibers of viscose, not carded or combed
            5504 90    Artificial staple fibers, other than viscose, not
                       carded or combed
            5505 10    Waste of synthetic fibers
            5505 20    Waste of artificial fibers
            5506 10    Staple fibers of nylon or other polyamides, carded
                       or combed 
            5506 20    Staple fibers of polyesters, carded or combed
            5506 30    Staple fibers of acrylic or modacrylic, carded or
                       combed 
            5506 90    Synthetic staple fibers, carded or combed, nes
            5507 00    Artificial staple fibers, carded or combed
            5508 10    Sewing thread of synthetic staple fibers
            5508 20    Sewing thread of artificial staple fibers

                              Annex 300-B                                   

            HS No.     Description            HS No.     Description

            5509 11    Yarn,  85% nylon or other polyamide staple fibers,
                       single, not for retail sale
            5509 12    Yarn,  85% nylon or other polyamide staple fibers,
                       multiple, not for retail sale, nes
            5509 21    Yarn,  85% of polyester staple fibers, single, not
                       for retail sale
            5509 22    Yarn,  85% of polyester staple fibers, multiple,
                       not for retail sale, nes
            5509 31    Yarn,  85% of acrylic or modacrylic staple fibers,
                       single, not for retail sale
            5509 32    Yarn,  85% acrylic/modacrylic staple fibers,
                       multiple, not for retail sale, nes
            5509 41    Yarn,  85% of other synthetic staple fibers,
                       single, not for retail sale
            5509 42    Yarn,  85% of other synthetic staple fibers,
                       multiple, not for retail sale, nes
            5509 51    Yarn of polyester staple fibers mixed with
                       artificial staple fiber, not for retail sale, nes
            5509 52    Yarn of polyester staple fiber mixed with wool or
                       fine animal hair, not for retail sale, nes
            5509 53    Yarn of polyester staple fibers mixed with cotton,
                       not for retail sale, nes 
            5509 59    Yarn of polyester staple fibers, not for retail
                       sale, nes 
            5509 61    Yarn of acrylic staple fiber mixed with wool or
                       fine animal hair, not for retail sale, nes
            5509 62    Yarn of acrylic staple fibers mixed with cotton,
                       not for retail sale, nes
            5509 69    Yarn of acrylic staple fibers, not for retail sale,
                       nes
            5509 91    Yarn of other synthetic staple fibers mixed with
                       wool or fine animal hair, not for retail sale, nes
            5509 92    Yarn of other synthetic staple fibers mixed with
                       cotton, not for retail sale, nes
            5509 99    Yarn of other synthetic staple fibers, not for
                       retail sale, nes
            5510 11    Yarn,  85% of artificial staple fibers, single, not
                       for retail sale
            5510 12    Yarn,  85% of artificial staple fibers, multiple,
                       not for retail sale, nes
            5510 20    Yarn of artificial staple fiber mixed with
                       wool/fine animal hair, not for retail sale, nes
            5510 30    Yarn of artificial staple fibers mixed with cotton,
                       not for retail sale, nes
            5510 90    Yarn of artificial staple fibers, not for retail
                       sale, nes

                               Annex 300-B                                  

            HS No.     Description            HS No.     Description

            5511 10    Yarn,  85% of synthetic staple fibers, other than
                       sewing thread, for retail sale
            5511 20    Yarn, <85% of synthetic staple fibers, for retail
                       sale, nes
            5511 30    Yarn of artificial fibers (other than sewing
                       thread), for retail sale
            5512 11    Woven fabric,  85% of polyester staple fibers,
                       unbleached or bleached
            5512 19    Woven fabric,  85% of polyester staple fibers,
                       other than unbleached or bleached
            5512 21    Woven fabric,  85% of acrylic staple fibers,
                       unbleached or bleached
            5512 29    Woven fabric,  85% of acrylic staple fibers, other
                       than unbleached or bleached
            5512 91    Woven fabric,  85% of other synthetic staple
                       fibers, unbleached or bleached
            5512 99    Woven fabric,  85% of other synthetic staple
                       fibers, other than unbleached or bleached
            5513 11    Plain weave polyester fabric, <85% syn stple fiber,
                       with cot,  170g/m2, unbl or bl
            5513 12    Twill weave polyester staple fiber fabric, <85%
                       syn. staple fiber, with cotton,  170g/m2, unbl or
                       bl
            5513 13    Woven polyester fabric, <85% synthetic stple fiber,
                       with cotton,  170g/m2, unbl or bl, nes
            5513 19    Woven fabric of other synthetic staple fiber, <85%
                       syn. stpl fib, with cotton,  170g/m2, unbl or bl
            5513 21    Plain weave polyester staple fiber fabric,<85%
                       synthetic staple fiber, with cotton,  170g/m2, dyed
            5513 22    Twill weave polyester staple fiber fabric,<85%
                       synthetic staple fiber, with cotton,  170g/m2, dyed
            5513 23    Woven fabric of polyester staple fiber, <85% syn.
                       staple fiber, with cotton,  170g/m2, dyed, nes
            5513 29    Woven fabric of other synthetic staple fiber, <85%
                       syn. staple fiber, with cotton,  170g/m2, dyed
            5513 31    Plain weave polyester staple fiber fabric, <85%
                       syn. staple fiber, with cotton,  170g/m2, yarn dyed
            5513 32    Twill weave polyester staple fiber fabric, <85%
                       syn. staple fiber, with cotton,  170g/m2, yarn dyed
            5513 33    Woven fabric of polyester staple fiber, <85% syn.
                       staple fiber, with cotton,  170g/m2, dyed nes
            5513 39    Woven fabric of other synthetic staple fiber, <85%
                       syn. staple fiber, with cotton,  170g/m2, yarn dyed
            5513 41    Plain weave polyester staple fiber fabric, <85%
                       syn. stpl fiber, with cotton,  170g/m2, printed
            5513 42    Twill weave polyester staple fiber fabric, <85%
                       syn. staple fiber, with cotton, <=/170g/m2, printed

                                    Annex 300-B                             

            HS No.     Description            HS No.     Description

            5513 43    Woven fabric of polyester staple fiber, <85% syn
                       staple fiber, with cotton,  170g/m2, printed, nes
            5513 49    Woven fabric of other synthetic staple fiber, <85%
                       syn. staple fiber, with cotton,  170g/m2, printed
            5514 11    Plain weave polyester staple fiber fabric, <85%
                       syn. staple fiber, with cotton, >170g/m2, unbl or
                       bl 
            5514 12    Twill weave polyester staple fiber fabric, <85%
                       syn. staple fiber, with cotton, >170g/m2, unbl or
                       bl
            5514 13    Woven fabric of polyester staple fiber, <85% syn.
                       stpl fiber, with cotton, >170g/m2, unbl or bl, nes
            5514 19    Woven fabric of other synthetic staple fiber, <85%
                       syn stpl. fib, with cotton, >170g/m2, unbl or bl
            5514 21    Plain weave polyester staple fiber fabric, <85% syn
                       staple fiber, with cotton, >170g/m2, dyed
            5514 22    Twill weave polyester staple fiber fabric, <85%
                       synthetic staple fiber, with cotton, >170g/m2, dyed
            5514 23    Woven fabric of polyester staple fiber, <85%
                       synthetic staple fiber, with cotton, >170g/m2, dyed
            5514 29    Woven fabric of other synthetic staple fiber, <85%
                       synthetic staple fiber, with cotton, >170g/m2, dyed
            5514 31    Plain weave polyester staple fiber fabric, <85%
                       syn. staple fiber, with cotton, >170g/m2, yarn dyed
            5514 32    Twill weave polyester staple fiber fabric, <85%
                       mixed with cotton, >170g/m2, yarn dyed
            5514 33    Woven fabric of polyester staple fiber, <85% syn.
                       staple fiber, with cotton, >170g/m2, yarn dyed nes
            5514 39    Woven fabric of other synthetic staple fiber, <85%
                       syn. stpl fiber, with cotton, >170g/m2, yarn dyed
            5514 41    Plain weave polyester staple fiber fabric, <85%
                       synthetic staple fiber, with cotton, >170g/m2,
                       printed
            5514 42    Twill weave polyester staple fiber fabric, <85%
                       synthetic staple fiber, with cotton, >170g/m2,
                       printed
            5514 43    Woven fabric of polyester staple fibers <85% syn.
                       staple fiber, with cotton, >170g/m2, printed, nes
            5514 49    Woven fabric of other synthetic staple fiber, <85%
                       syn. staple fiber, with cotton, >170g/m2, printed
            5515 11    Woven fabric of polyester staple fiber, with
                       viscose rayon staple fiber, nes
            5515 12    Woven fabric of polyester staple fiber, with man-
                       made filaments, nes
            5515 13    Woven fabric of polyester staple fiber, with wool
                       or fine animal hair, nes
            5515 19    Woven fabric of polyester staple fiber, nes

                                 Annex 300-B                                

            HS No.     Description            HS No.     Description

            5515 21    Woven fabric of acrylic staple fiber, with man-made
                       filaments, nes
            5515 22    Woven fabric of acrylic staple fiber, with wool or
                       fine animal hair, nes
            5515 29    Woven fabric of acrylic or modacrylic staple
                       fibers, nes
            5515 91    Woven fabric of other synthetic staple fiber, with
                       man-made filaments, nes
            5515 92    Woven fabric of other synthetic staple fiber, with
                       wool or fine animal hair, nes
            5515 99    Woven fabric of synthetic staple fibers, nes
            5516 11    Woven fabric,  85% artificial staple fiber,
                       unbleached or bleached
            5516 12    Woven fabric,  85% artificial staple fiber, dyed
            5516 13    Woven fabric,  85% artificial staple fiber, yarn
                       dyed
            5516 14    Woven fabric,  85% artificial staple fiber, printed
            5516 21    Woven fabric of artificial staple fiber, <85%
                       artificial staple fiber, with man-made fib, unbl or
                       bl
            5516 22    Woven fabric of artificial staple fiber, <85%
                       artificial staple fiber, with man-made fib, dyed
            5516 23    Woven fabric of artificial staple fiber, <85%
                       artificial staple fiber, with man-made fib, yarn
                       dyed
            5516 24    Woven fabric of artificial staple fiber, <85%
                       artificial staple fiber, with man-made fib, printed
            5516 31    Woven fabric of artificial staple fiber, <85% art
                       stpl fiber, with wool/fine animal hair, unbl or bl
            5516 32    Woven fabric of artificial staple fiber, <85% art
                       staple fiber, with wool/fine animal hair, dyed
            5516 33    Woven fabric of artificial staple fiber, <85% art
                       staple fiber, with wool/fine animal hair, yarn dyed
            5516 34    Woven fabric of artificial staple fiber, <85% art
                       staple fiber, with wool/fine animal hair, printed
            5516 41    Woven fabric of artificial staple fiber, <85%
                       artificial staple fiber, with cotton, unbl or bl
            5516 42    Woven fabric of artificial staple fiber, <85%
                       artificial staple fiber, with cotton, dyed
            5516 43    Woven fabric of artificial staple fiber, <85%
                       artificial staple fiber, with cotton, yarn dyed
            5516 44    Woven fabric of artificial staple fiber, <85%
                       artificial staple fiber, with cotton, printed
            5516 91    Woven fabric of artificial staple fiber, unbleached
                       or bleached, nes
            5516 92    Woven fabric of artificial staple fiber, dyed, nes

                                 Annex 300-B                                

            HS No.     Description            HS No.     Description

            5516 93    Woven fabric of artificial staple fiber, yarn dyed,
                       nes
            5516 94    Woven fabric of artificial staple fiber, printed,
                       nes 

            Chapter 56  Wadding, felt and nonwovens; special yarns, twine,
            cordage, ropes and cables and articles thereof

            5601 10    Sanitary articles of wadding of textile materials,
                       including sanitary towels, tampons, and diapers
            5601 21    Wadding of cotton and articles thereof, other than
                       sanitary articles
            5601 22    Wadding of man-made fibers and articles thereof,
                       other than sanitary articles
            5601 29    Wedge of other textile materials and articles
                       thereof, other than sanitary articles
            5601 30    Textile flock and dust and mill neps
            5602 10    Needleloom felt and stitch-bonded fiber fabric
            5602 21    Felt other than needleloom, of wool or fine animal
                       hair, not impregnated, coated, covered or laminated
            5602 29    Felt other than needleloom, of other textile
                       materials, not impregnated, coated, covered or
                       laminated
            5602 90    Felt of textile materials, nes
            5603 00    Nonwovens, whether or not impregnated, coated,
                       covered or laminated
            5604 10    Rubber thread and cord, textile covered
            5604 20    High tenacity yarn of polyester, nylon other
                       polyamide, viscose rayon, impregnated or coated
            5604 90    Textile yarn, strip, impregnated, coated, covered
                       or sheathed with rubber or plastics nes
            5605 00    Metalized yarn, being textile yarn combined with
                       metal thread, strip, or powder
            5606 00    Gimped yarn nes; chenille yarn; loop wale-yarn
            5607 10    Twine, cordage, ropes and cables, of jute or other
                       textile bast fibers
            5607 21    Binder or baler twine, of sisal or other textile
                       fibers of the genus Agave
            5607 29    Twine nes, cordage, ropes and cables, of sisal
                       textile fibers
            5607 30    Twine, cordage, ropes and cables, of abaca or other
                       hard (leaf) fibers
            5607 41    Binder or baler twine, of polyethylene or
                       polypropylene
            5607 49    Twine nes, cordage, ropes and cables, of
                       polyethylene or polypropylene

                                 Annex 300-B                                

            HS No.     Description            HS No.     Description

            5607 50    Twine, cordage, ropes and cables, of other
                       synthetic fibers
            5607 90    Twine, cordage, ropes and cables, of other
                       materials
            5608 11    Made up fishing nets, of man-made textile materials
            5608 19    Knotted netting of twine, cordage, or rope, and
                       other made up nets of man-made textile materials
            5608 90    Knotted netting of twine, cordage, or rope, nes,
                       and made up nets of other textile materials
            5609 00    Articles of yarn, strip, twine, cordage, rope and
                       cables, nes 

            Chapter 57  Carpets and other textile floor coverings

            5701 10    Carpets of wool or fine animal hair, knotted
            5701 90    Carpets of other textile materials, knotted
            5702 10    Kelem, Schumacks, Karamanie and similar textile
                       hand-woven rugs
            5702 20    Floor coverings of coconut fibers (coir)
            5702 31    Carpets of wool or fine animal hair, of woven pile
                       construction, not made up, nes
            5702 32    Carpets of man-made textile materials, of woven
                       pile construction, not made up, nes
            5702 39    Carpets of other textile materials, of woven pile
                       construction, not made up, nes
            5702 41    Carpets of wool or fine animal hair, of woven pile
                       construction, made up, nes
            5702 42    Carpets of man-made textile materials, of woven
                       pile construction, made up, nes
            5702 49    Carpets of other textile materials, of woven pile
                       construction, made up, nes
            5702 51    Carpets of wool or fine animal hair, woven, not
                       made up, nes
            5702 52    Carpets of man-made textile materials, woven, not
                       made up, nes
            5702 59    Carpets of other textile materials, woven, not made
                       up, nes
            5702 91    Carpets of wool or fine animal hair, woven, made
                       up, nes
            5702 92    Carpets of man-made textile materials, woven, made
                       up, nes
            5702 99    Carpets of other textile materials, woven, made up,
                       nes
            5703 10    Carpets of wool or fine animal hair, tufted
            5703 20    Carpets of nylon or other polyamide, tufted
            5703 30    Carpets of other man-made textile materials, tufted
            5703 90    Carpets of other textile materials, tufted

                                Annex 300-B                                 

            HS No.     Description            HS No.     Description

            5704 10    Tiles of felt of textile materials, having a
                       maximum surface area of 0.3 m2
            5704 90    Carpets of felt of textile materials, nes
            5705 00    Carpets and other textile floor coverings, nes

            Chapter 58  Special woven fabrics; tufted textile fabrics;
            lace; tapestries; trimmings; embroidery

            5801 10    Woven pile fabric of wool or fine animal hair,
                       other than terry and narrow fabric
            5801 21    Woven uncut weft pile fabric of cotton, other than
                       terry and narrow fabric
            5801 22    Cut corduroy fabric of cotton, other than narrow
                       fabric
            5801 23    Woven weft pile fabric of cotton, nes
            5801 24    Woven warp pile fabric of cotton, epingle (uncut),
                       other than terry and narrow fabric
            5801 25    Woven warp pile fabric of cotton, cut, other than
                       terry and narrow fabric
            5801 26    Chenille fabric of cotton, other than narrow fabric
            5801 31    Woven uncut weft pile fabric of manmade fibers,
                       other than terry and narrow fabric
            5801 32    Cut corduroy fabric of man-made fibers, other than
                       narrow fabric
            5801 33    Woven weft pile fabric of man-made fibers, nes
            5801 34    Woven warp pile fabric of man-made fiber, epingle
                       (uncut),other than terry and narrow fabric
            5801 35    Woven warp pile fabric of man-made fiber, cut,
                       other than terry and narrow fabric
            5801 36    Chenille fabric of man-made fibers, other than
                       narrow fabric
            5801 90    Woven pile fabric and chenille fabric of other
                       textile materials, other than terry and narrow
                       fabric
            5802 11    Terry toweling and similar woven terry fabric of
                       cotton, other than narrow fabric, unbleached
            5802 19    Terry toweling and similar woven terry fabric of
                       cotton, other than unbleached or narrow fabric
            5802 20    Terry toweling and similar woven terry fabric of
                       other textile materials, other than narrow fabric
            5802 30    Tufted textile fabric, other than products of
                       heading No 57.03
            5803 10    Gauze of cotton, other than narrow fabric
            5803 90    Gauze of other textile material, other than narrow
                       fabric
            5804 10    Tulles and other net fabric, not including woven,
                       knitted or crocheted fabric

                                   Annex 300-B                              

            HS No.     Description            HS No.     Description

            5804 21    Mechanically made lace of man-made fiber, in the
                       piece, in strips or motifs
            5804 29    Mechanically made lace of other textile materials,
                       in the piece, in strips or in motifs
            5804 30    Hand-made lace, in the piece, in strips or in
                       motifs
            5805 00    Hand-woven tapestries and needle-worked tapestries,
                       whether or not made up
            5806 10    Narrow woven pile fabric and narrow chenille fabric
            5806 20    Narrow woven fabric, containing  5% elastomeric
                       yarn or rubber thread, nes
            5806 31    Narrow woven fabric of cotton, nes
            5806 32    Narrow woven fabric of man-made fibers, nes
            5806 39    Narrow woven fabric of other textile materials, nes
            5806 40    Fabric consisting of warp without weft, assembled
                       by means of an adhesive
            5807 10    Labels, badges and similar woven articles of
                       textile materials
            5807 90    Labels, badges and similar articles, not woven, of
                       textile materials, nes
            5808 10    Braids in the piece
            5808 90    Ornamental trimmings in the piece, other than knit;
                       tassels, pompons and similar articles
            5809 00    Woven fabric of metal thread or metalized yarn, for
                       apparel, and homefurnishings, nes
            5810 10    Embroidery without visible ground, in the piece, in
                       strips or in motifs
            5810 91    Embroidery of cotton, in the piece, in strips or in
                       motifs, nes
            5810 92    Embroidery of man-made fibers, in the piece, in
                       strips or in motifs, nes
            5810 99    Embroidery of other textile materials, in the
                       piece, in strips or motifs, nes
            5811 00    Quilted textile products in the piece

            Chapter 59  Impregnated, coated, covered, laminated textile
            fabric; textile articles suitable for industrial use

            5901 10    Textile fabric coated with gum, of a kind used for
                       outer covers of books or the like
            5901 90    Tracing cloth; prepared painting canvas; stiffened
                       textile fabric for hats, nes
            5902 10    Tire cord fabric of high tenacity nylon or other
                       polyamide yarn
            5902 20    Tire cord fabric of high tenacity polyester yarn
            5902 90    Tire cord fabric made of high tenacity viscose
                       rayon yarn

                                    Annex 300-B                             

            HS No.     Description            HS No.     Description

            5903 10    Textile fabric impregnated, coated, covered, or
                       laminated with polyvinyl chloride, nes
            5903 20    Textile fabric impregnated, coated, covered, or
                       laminated with polyurethane, nes
            5903 90    Textile fabric impregnated, coated, covered, or
                       laminated with plastics, nes
            5904 10    Linoleum, whether or not cut to shape
            5904 91    Floor coverings, other than linoleum, with a base
                       of needleloom felt or nonwovens
            5904 92    Floor coverings, other than linoleum, with other
                       textile base
            5905 00    Textile wall coverings
            5906 10    Rubberized textile adhesive tape of a width not
                       exceeding 20 cm
            5906 91    Rubberized textile knitted or crocheted fabric, nes
            5906 99    Rubberized textile fabric, nes
            5907 00    Textile fabric impregnated, coated, covered, nes;
                       painted canvas for theater use, backdrops, etc.
            5908 00    Textile wicks for lamps, stoves, candles or the
                       like; gas mantles and knitted gas mantle fabric
            5909 00    Textile hosepiping and similar textile tubing
            5910 00    Transmission or conveyor belts or belting of
                       textile material whether or not reinforced
            5911 10    Felt and felt-lined woven fabric combined with
                       rubber, leather, or other material, for technical
                       uses
            5911 20    Textile bolting cloth, whether or not made up
            5911 31    Textile fabric, endless or linked, for paper-making
                       or similar machines, weighing <650 g/m2
            5911 32    Textile fabric, endless or linked, for paper-making
                       or similar machines, weighing  650 g/m2
            5911 40    Textile straining cloth used in oil presses or the
                       like, including of human hair
            5911 90    Textile products and articles for technical uses,
                       nes 

            Chapter 60  Knitted or crocheted fabrics

            6001 10    Long pile knitted or crocheted textile fabric
            6001 21    Looped pile knitted or crocheted fabric, of cotton
            6001 22    Looped pile knitted or crocheted fabric, of man-
                       made fibers
            6001 29    Looped pile knitted or crocheted fabric, of other
                       textile materials
            6001 91    Pile knitted or crocheted fabric, of cotton, nes
            6001 92    Pile knitted or crocheted fabric, of man-made
                       fiber, nes

                             Annex 300-B                                    

            HS No.     Description            HS No.     Description

            6001 99    Pile knitted or crocheted fabric, of other textile
                       materials, nes
            6002 10    Knitted or crocheted textile fabric, w 30 cm, 5% of
                       elastomeric yarn or rubber thread, nes
            6002 20    Knitted or crocheted textile fabric, width not
                       exceeding 30 cm, nes
            6002 30    Knitted or crocheted textile fabric, width > 30 cm,
                        5% of elastomeric yarn or rubber thread, nes
            6002 41    Warp knitted fabric, of wool or fine animal hair,
                       nes
            6002 42    Warp knitted fabric, of cotton, nes
            6002 43    Warp knitted fabric, of man-made fibers, nes
            6002 49    Warp knitted fabric, of other materials, nes
            6002 91    Knitted or crocheted fabric, of wool or of fine
                       animal hair, nes
            6002 92    Knitted or crocheted fabric, of cotton, nes
            6002 93    Knitted or crocheted fabric, of manmade fibers, nes
            6002 99    Knitted or crocheted fabric, of other materials,
                       nes 

            Chapter 61  Articles of apparel and clothing accessories,
            knitted or crocheted

            6101 10    Men's or boys' overcoats, anoraks, and sim
                       articles, of wool or fine animal hair, knitted or
                       crocheted
            6101 20    Men's or boys' overcoats, anoraks, and similar
                       articles, of cotton, knitted or crocheted
            6101 30    Men's or boys' overcoats, anoraks, and similar
                       articles, of man-made fibers, knitted or crocheted
            6101 90    Men's or boys' overcoats, anoraks, and sim
                       articles, of other textile materials, knitted or
                       crocheted
            6102 10    Women's or girls' overcoats, anoraks and sim art,
                       of wool or fine animal hair, knitted or crocheted
            6102 20    Women's or girls' overcoats, anoraks and similar
                       articles, of cotton, knitted or crocheted
            6102 30    Women's or girls' overcoats, anoraks and similar
                       articles, of man-made fibers, knitted or crocheted
            6102 90    Women's or girls' overcoats, anoraks and sim art,
                       of other textile materials, knitted or crocheted
            6103 11    Men's or boys' suits, of wool or fine animal hair,
                       knitted or crocheted
            6103 12    Men's or boys' suits, of synthetic fibers, knitted
                       or crocheted
            6103 19    Men's or boys' suits, of other textile materials,
                       knitted or crocheted

                                 Annex 300-B                                

            HS No.     Description            HS No.     Description

            6103 21    Men's or boys' ensembles, of wool or fine animal
                       hair, knitted or crocheted
            6103 22    Men's or boys' ensembles, of cotton, knitted or
                       crocheted
            6103 23    Men's or boys' ensembles, of synthetic fibers,
                       knitted or crocheted
            6103 29    Men's or boys' ensembles, of other textile
                       materials, knitted or crocheted
            6103 31    Men's or boys' jackets and blazers, of wool or fine
                       animal hair, knitted or crocheted
            6103 32    Men's or boys' jackets and blazers, of cotton,
                       knitted or crocheted
            6103 33    Men's or boys' jackets and blazers, of synthetic
                       fibers, knitted or crocheted
            6103 39    Men's or boys' jackets and blazers, of other
                       textile materials, knitted or crocheted
            6103 41    Men's or boys' trousers and shorts, of wool or fine
                       animal hair, knitted or crocheted
            6103 42    Men's or boys' trousers and shorts, of cotton,
                       knitted or crocheted
            6103 43    Men's or boys' trousers and shorts, of synthetic
                       fibers, knitted or crocheted
            6103 49    Men's or boys' trousers and shorts, of other
                       textile materials, knitted or crocheted
            6104 11    Women's or girls' suits, of wool or fine animal
                       hair, knitted or crocheted
            6104 12    Women's or girls' suits, of cotton, knitted or
                       crocheted
            6104 13    Women's or girls' suits, of synthetic fibers,
                       knitted or crocheted
            6104 19    Women's or girls' suits, of other textile
                       materials, knitted or crocheted
            6104 21    Women's or girls' ensembles, of wool or fine animal
                       hair, knitted or crocheted
            6104 22    Women's or girls' ensembles, of cotton, knitted or
                       crocheted
            6104 23    Women's or girls' ensembles, of synthetic fibers,
                       knitted or crocheted
            6104 29    Women's or girls' ensembles, of other textile
                       materials, knitted or crocheted
            6104 31    Women's or girls' jackets, of wool or fine animal
                       hair, knitted or crocheted
            6104 32    Women's or girls' jackets, of cotton, knitted or
                       crocheted
            6104 33    Women's or girls' jackets, of synthetic fibers,
                       knitted or crocheted

                                  Annex 300-B                               

            HS No.     Description            HS No.     Description

            6104 39    Women's or girls' jackets, of other textile
                       materials, knitted or crocheted
            6104 41    Women's or girls' dresses, of wool or fine animal
                       hair, knitted or crocheted
            6104 42    Women's or girls' dresses, of cotton, knitted or
                       crocheted
            6104 43    Women's or girls' dresses, of synthetic fibers,
                       knitted or crocheted
            6104 44    Women's or girls' dresses, of artificial fibers,
                       knitted or crocheted
            6104 49    Women's or girls' dresses, of other textile
                       materials, knitted or crocheted
            6104 51    Women's or girls' skirts, of wool or fine animal
                       hair, knitted or crocheted
            6104 52    Women's or girls' skirts, of cotton, knitted or
                       crocheted
            6104 53    Women's or girls' skirts, of synthetic fibers,
                       knitted or crocheted
            6104 59    Women's or girls' skirts, of other textile
                       materials, knitted or crocheted
            6104 61    Women's or girls' trousers and shorts, of wool or
                       fine animal hair, knitted or crocheted
            6104 62    Women's or girls' trousers and shorts, of cotton,
                       knitted or crocheted
            6104 63    Women's or girls' trousers and shorts, of synthetic
                       fibers, knitted or crocheted
            6104 69    Women's or girls' trousers and shorts, of other
                       textile materials, knitted or crocheted
            6105 10    Men's or boys' shirts, of cotton, knitted or
                       crocheted
            6105 20    Men's or boys' shirts, of man-made fibers, knitted
                       or crocheted
            6105 90    Men's or boys' shirts, of other textile materials,
                       knitted or crocheted
            6106 10    Women's or girls' blouses and shirts, of cotton,
                       knitted or crocheted
            6106 20    Women's or girls' blouses and shirts, of man-made
                       fibers, knitted or crocheted
            6106 90    Women's or girls' blouses and shirts, of other
                       materials, knitted or crocheted
            6107 11    Men's or boys' underpants and briefs, of cotton,
                       knitted or crocheted
            6107 12    Men's or boys' underpants and briefs, of man-made
                       fibers, knitted or crocheted
            6107 19    Men's or boys' underpants and briefs, of other
                       textile materials, knitted or crocheted

                         Annex 300-B                                        

            HS No.     Description            HS No.     Description

            6107 21    Men's or boys' nightshirts and pajamas, of cotton,
                       knitted or crocheted
            6107 22    Men's or boys' nightshirts and pajamas, of man-made
                       fibers, knitted or crocheted
            6107 29    Men's or boys' nightshirts and pajamas, of other
                       textile materials, knitted or crocheted
            6107 91    Men's or boys' underpants, briefs, robes, and
                       similar articles of cotton, knitted or crocheted
            6107 92    Men's or boys' underpants, briefs, robes, and sim
                       articles of man-made fibers, knitted or crocheted
            6107 99    Men's or boys' underwear, briefs, robes, and sim
                       art of other textile materials, knitted or
                       crocheted
            6108 11    Women's or girls' slips and petticoats, of man-made
                       fibers, knitted or crocheted
            6108 19    Women's or girls' slips and petticoats, of other
                       textile materials, knitted or crocheted
            6108 21    Women's or girls' briefs and panties, of cotton,
                       knitted or crocheted
            6108 22    Women's or girls' briefs and panties, of man-made
                       fibers, knitted or crocheted
            6108 29    Women's or girls' briefs and panties, of other
                       textile materials, knitted or crocheted
            6108 31    Women's or girls' nightdresses and pajamas, of
                       cotton, knitted or crocheted
            6108 32    Women's or girls' nightdresses and pajamas, of man-
                       made fibers, knitted or crocheted
            6108 39    Women's or girls' nightdresses and pajamas, of
                       other textile materials, knitted or crocheted
            6108 91    Women's or girls' robes, dressing gowns, and
                       similar articles of cotton, nes, knitted or
                       crocheted
            6108 92    Women's or girls' robes, dressing gowns, and sim
                       art of man-made fibers, nes, knitted or crocheted
            6108 99    Women's or girls' robes, dressing gowns, and sim
                       art of other tex materials, nes, knitted or
                       crocheted
            6109 10    T-shirts, singlets, tank tops, and similar
                       garments, of cotton, knitted or crocheted
            6109 90    T-shirts, singlets, tank tops, and similar
                       garments, of other textile materials, knitted or
                       crocheted
            6110 10    Sweaters, pullovers, sweatshirts, and sim articles
                       of wool or fine animal hair, knitted or crocheted
            6110 20    Sweaters, pullovers, sweatshirts, and similar
                       articles of cotton, knitted or crocheted

                                  Annex 300-B                               

            HS No.     Description            HS No.     Description

            6110 30    Sweaters, pullovers, sweatshirts, and similar
                       articles of man-made fibers, knitted or crocheted
            6110 90    Sweaters, pullovers, sweatshirts, and sim articles
                       of other textile materials, knitted or crocheted
            6111 10    Babies' garments and clothing accessories of wool
                       or fine animal hair, knitted or crocheted
            6111 20    Babies' garments and clothing accessories of
                       cotton, knitted or crocheted
            6111 30    Babies' garments and clothing accessories of
                       synthetic fibers, knitted or crocheted
            6111 90    Babies' garments and clothing accessories of other
                       textile materials, knitted or crocheted
            6112 11    Track suits, of cotton, knitted or crocheted
            6112 12    Track suits, of synthetic fibers, knitted or
                       crocheted
            6112 19    Track suits, of other textile materials, knitted or
                       crocheted
            6112 20    Ski suits, of textile materials, knitted or
                       crocheted
            6112 31    Men's or boys' swimwear, of synthetic fibers,
                       knitted or crocheted
            6112 39    Men's or boys' swimwear, of other textile
                       materials, knitted or crocheted
            6112 41    Women's or girls' swimwear, of synthetic fibers,
                       knitted or crocheted
            6112 49    Women's or girls' swimwear, of other textile
                       materials, knitted or crocheted
            6113 00    Garments made up of impregnated, coated, covered or
                       laminated textile knitted or crocheted fabric
            6114 10    Garments of wool or fine animal hair, knitted or
                       crocheted, nes
            6114 20    Garments of cotton, knitted or crocheted, nes
            6114 30    Garments of man-made fibers, knitted or crocheted,
                       nes
            6114 90    Garments of other textile materials, knitted or
                       crocheted, nes
            6115 11    Panty hose and tights, of synthetic fiber yarn, <67
                       decitex/single yarn, knitted or crocheted
            6115 12    Panty hose and tights, of synthetic fiber yarn,  67
                       decitex/single yarn, knitted or crocheted
            6115 19    Panty hose and tights, of other textile materials,
                       knitted or crocheted
            6115 20    Women full or knee length hosiery, of textile yarn,
                       <67 decitex/single yarn, knitted or crocheted
            6115 91    Hosiery nes, of wool or fine animal hair, knitted
                       or crocheted
            6115 92    Hosiery nes, of cotton, knitted or crocheted

                             Annex 300-B                                    

            HS No.     Description            HS No.     Description

            6115 93    Hosiery nes, of synthetic fibers, knitted or
                       crocheted
            6115 99    Hosiery nes, of other textile materials, knitted or
                       crocheted
            6116 10    Gloves or mittens, impregnated, coated or covered
                       with plastics or rubber, knitted or crocheted
            6116 91    Gloves or mittens, nes, of wool or fine animal
                       hair, knitted or crocheted
            6116 92    Gloves or mittens, nes, of cotton, knitted or
                       crocheted
            6116 93    Gloves or mittens, nes, of synthetic fibers,
                       knitted or crocheted
            6116 99    Gloves or mittens, nes, of other textile materials,
                       knitted or crocheted
            6117 10    Shawls, scarves, veils and the like, of textile
                       materials, knitted or crocheted
            6117 20    Ties, bow ties and cravats, of textile materials,
                       knitted or crocheted
            6117 80    Clothing accessories nes, of textile materials,
                       knitted or crocheted
            6117 90    Parts of garments or clothing accessories, of
                       textile materials, knitted or crocheted 

            Chapter 62  Articles of apparel and clothing accessories, not
            knitted or crocheted

            6201 11    Men's or boys' overcoats, and similar articles of
                       wool or fine animal hair, not knit
            6201 12    Men's or boys' overcoats, and similar articles of
                       cotton, not knitted or crocheted
            6201 13    Men's or boys' overcoats, and similar articles of
                       man-made fibers, not knitted or crocheted
            6201 19    Men's or boys' overcoats, and similar articles of
                       other textile materials, not knitted or crocheted
            6201 91    Men's or boys' anoraks and similar articles, of
                       wool or fine animal hair, not knitted or crocheted
            6201 92    Men's or boys' anoraks and similar articles, of
                       cotton, not knitted or crocheted
            6201 93    Men's or boys' anoraks and similar articles, of
                       man-made fibers, not knitted or crocheted
            6201 99    Men's or boys' anoraks and similar articles, of
                       other textile materials, not knitted or crocheted
            6202 11    Women's or girls' overcoats and similar articles of
                       wool or fine animal hair not knit
            6202 12    Women's or girls' overcoats and similar articles of
                       cotton, not knitted or crocheted

                                   Annex 300-B                              

            HS No.     Description            HS No.     Description

            6202 13    Women's or girls' overcoats and similar articles of
                       man-made fibers, not knitted or crocheted
            6202 19    Women's or girls' overcoats and similar articles of
                       other textile mat, not knit
            6202 91    Women's or girls' anoraks and similar article of
                       wool or fine animal hair, not knit
            6202 92    Women's or girls' anoraks and similar article of
                       cotton, not knitted or crocheted
            6202 93    Women's or girls' anoraks and similar article of
                       man-made fibers, not knitted or crocheted
            6202 99    Women's or girls' anoraks and similar article of
                       other textile materials, not knit
            6203 11    Men's or boys' suits, of wool or fine animal hair,
                       not knitted or crocheted
            6203 12    Men's or boys' suits, of synthetic fibers, not
                       knitted or crocheted
            6203 19    Men's or boys' suits, of other textile materials,
                       not knitted or crocheted
            6203 21    Men's or boys' ensembles, of wool or fine animal
                       hair, not knitted or crocheted
            6203 22    Men's or boys' ensembles, of cotton, not knitted or
                       crocheted
            6203 23    Men's or boys' ensembles, of synthetic fibers, not
                       knitted or crocheted
            6203 29    Men's or boys' ensembles, of other textile
                       materials, not knitted or crocheted
            6203 31    Men's or boys' jackets and blazers, of wool or fine
                       animal hair, not knitted or crocheted
            6203 32    Men's or boys' jackets and blazers, of cotton, not
                       knitted or crocheted
            6203 33    Men's or boys' jackets and blazers, of synthetic
                       fibers, not knitted or crocheted
            6203 39    Men's or boys' jackets and blazers, of other
                       textile materials, not knitted or crocheted
            6203 41    Men's or boys' trousers and shorts, of wool or fine
                       animal hair, not knitted or crocheted
            6203 42    Men's or boys' trousers and shorts, of cotton, not
                       knitted or crocheted
            6203 43    Men's or boys' trousers and shorts, of synthetic
                       fibers, not knitted or crocheted
            6203 49    Men's or boys' trousers and shorts, of other
                       textile materials, not knitted or crocheted
            6204 11    Women's or girls' suits, of wool or fine animal
                       hair, not knitted or crocheted
            6204 12    Women's or girls' suits, of cotton, not knitted or
                       crocheted

                              Annex 300-B                                   

            HS No.     Description            HS No.     Description

            6204 13    Women's or girls' suits, of synthetic fibers, not
                       knitted or crocheted
            6204 19    Women's or girls' suits, of other textile
                       materials, not knitted or crocheted
            6204 21    Women's or girls' ensembles, of wool or fine animal
                       hair, not knitted or crocheted
            6204 22    Women's or girls' ensembles, of cotton, not knitted
                       or crocheted
            6204 23    Women's or girls' ensembles, of synthetic fibers,
                       not knitted or crocheted
            6204 29    Women's or girls' ensembles, of other textile
                       materials, not knitted or crocheted
            6204 31    Women's or girls' jackets, of wool or fine animal
                       hair, not knitted or crocheted
            6204 32    Women's or girls' jackets, of cotton, not knitted
                       or crocheted
            6204 33    Women's or girls' jackets, of synthetic fibers, not
                       knitted or crocheted
            6204 39    Women's or girls' jackets, of other textile
                       materials, not knitted or crocheted
            6204 41    Women's or girls' dresses, of wool or fine animal
                       hair, not knitted or crocheted
            6204 42    Women's or girls' dresses, of cotton, not knitted
                       or crocheted
            6204 43    Women's or girls' dresses, of synthetic fibers, not
                       knitted or crocheted
            6204 44    Women's or girls' dresses, of artificial fibers,
                       not knitted or crocheted
            6204 49    Women's or girls' dresses, of other textile
                       materials, not knitted or crocheted
            6204 51    Women's or girls' skirts, of wool or fine animal
                       hair, not knitted or crocheted
            6204 52    Women's or girls' skirts, of cotton, not knitted or
                       crocheted
            6204 53    Women's or girls' skirts, of synthetic fibers, not
                       knitted or crocheted
            6204 59    Women's or girls' skirts, of other textile
                       materials, not knitted or crocheted
            6204 61    Women's or girls' trousers and shorts, of wool or
                       fine animal hair, not knitted or crocheted
            6204 62    Women's or girls' trousers and shorts, of cotton,
                       not knitted or crocheted
            6204 63    Women's or girls' trousers and shorts, of synthetic
                       fibers, not knitted or crocheted
            6204 69    Women's or girls' trousers and shorts, of other
                       textile materials, not knitted or crocheted

                             Annex 300-B                                    

            HS No.     Description            HS No.     Description

            6205 10    Men's or boys' shirts, of wool or fine animal hair,
                       not knitted or crocheted
            6205 20    Men's or boys' shirts, of cotton, not knitted or
                       crocheted
            6205 30    Men's or boys' shirts, of man-made fibers, not
                       knitted or crocheted
            6205 90    Men's or boys' shirts, of other textile materials,
                       not knitted or crocheted
            6206 10    Women's or girls' blouses and shirts, of silk or
                       silk waste, not knitted or crocheted
            6206 20    Women's or girls' blouses and shirts, of wool or
                       fine animal hair, not knitted or crocheted
            6206 30    Women's or girls' blouses and shirts, of cotton,
                       not knitted or crocheted
            6206 40    Women's or girls' blouses and shirts, of man-made
                       fibers, not knitted or crocheted
            6206 90    Women's or girls' blouses and shirts, of other
                       textile materials, not knitted or crocheted
            6207 11    Men's or boys' underpants and briefs, of cotton,
                       not knitted or crocheted
            6207 19    Men's or boys' underpants and briefs, of other
                       textile materials, not knitted or crocheted
            6207 21    Men's or boys' nightshirts and pajamas, of cotton,
                       not knitted or crocheted
            6207 22    Men's or boys' nightshirts and pajamas, of man-made
                       fibers, not knitted or crocheted
            6207 29    Men's or boys' nightshirts and pajamas, of other
                       textile materials, not knitted or crocheted
            6207 91    Men's or boys' robes, dressing gowns, and similar
                       articles of cotton, not knitted or crocheted
            6207 92    Men's or boys' robes, dressing gowns, and sim art
                       of man-made fibers, not knitted or crocheted
            6207 99    Men's or boys' robes, dressing gowns, and similar
                       articles of other textile materials, not knit
            6208 11    Women's or girls' slips and petticoats, of man-made
                       fibers, not knitted or crocheted
            6208 19    Women's or girls' slips and petticoats, of other
                       textile materials, not knitted or crocheted
            6208 21    Women's or girls' nightdresses and pajamas, of
                       cotton, not knitted or crocheted
            6208 22    Women's or girls' nightdresses and pajamas, of man-
                       made fibers, not knitted or crocheted
            6208 29    Women's or girls' nightdresses and pajamas, of
                       other textile materials, not knitted or crocheted
            6208 91    Women's or girls' panties, robes, and similar
                       articles of cotton, not knitted or crocheted

                                 Annex 300-B                                

            HS No.     Description            HS No.     Description

            6208 92    Women's or girls' panties, robes, and similar
                       articles of man-made fibers, not knitted or
                       crocheted
            6208 99    Women's or girls' panties, robes, and sim art of
                       other textile materials, not knitted or crocheted
            6209 10    Babies' garments and clothing accessories of wool
                       or fine animal hair, not knitted or crocheted
            6209 20    Babies' garments and clothing accessories of
                       cotton, not knitted or crocheted
            6209 30    Babies' garments and clothing accessories of
                       synthetic fibers, not knitted or crocheted
            6209 90    Babies' garments and clothing accessories of other
                       textile materials, not knitted or crocheted
            6210 10    Garments made up of textile felts and of nonwoven
                       textile fabric
            6210 20    Men's or boys' overcoats and similar articles of
                       impreg, coated, covered etc, textile fabric
            6210 30    Women's or girls' overcoats and sim art, of
                       impregnated, coated, covered, or laminated woven
                       fabric
            6210 40    Men's or boys' garments nes, made up of
                       impregnated, coated, covered, or laminated woven
                       fabric
            6210 50    Women's or girls' garments nes, of impregnated,
                       coated, covered, or laminated woven fabric
            6211 11    Men's or boys' swimwear, of textile materials not
                       knitted or crocheted
            6211 12    Women's or girls' swimwear, of textile materials,
                       not knitted or crocheted
            6211 20    Ski suits, of textile materials, not knitted or
                       crocheted
            6211 31    Men's or boys' garments nes, of wool or fine animal
                       hair, not knitted or crocheted
            6211 32    Men's or boys' garments nes, of cotton, not knitted
                       or crocheted
            6211 33    Men's or boys' garments nes, of man-made fibers,
                       not knitted or crocheted
            6211 39    Men's or boys' garments nes, of other textile
                       materials, not knitted or crocheted
            6211 41    Women's or girls' garments nes, of wool or fine
                       animal hair, not knitted or crocheted
            6211 42    Women's or girls' garments nes, of cotton, not
                       knitted or crocheted
            6211 43    Women's or girls' garments nes, of man-made fibers,
                       not knitted or crocheted
            6211 49    Women's or girls' garments nes, of other textile
                       materials, not knitted or crocheted

                                Annex 300-B                                 

            HS No.     Description            HS No.     Description

            6212 10    Brassieres and parts thereof, of textile materials,
                       whether or not knitted or crocheted
            6212 20    Girdles, panty girdles and parts thereof, of
                       textile materials, whether or not crocheted
            6212 30    Corselettes and parts thereof, of textile
                       materials, whether or not knitted or crocheted
            6212 90    Corsets, braces and sim articles and parts, of
                       textile materials, whether or not knitted or
                       crocheted
            6213 10    Handkerchiefs, of silk or silk waste, not knitted
                       or crocheted
            6213 20    Handkerchiefs, of cotton, not knitted or crocheted
            6213 90    Handkerchiefs, of other textile materials, not
                       knitted or crocheted
            6214 10    Shawls, scarves, veils and the like, of silk or
                       silk waste, not knitted or crocheted
            6214 20    Shawls, scarves, veils and the like, of wool or
                       fine animal hair, not knitted or crocheted
            6214 30    Shawls, scarves, veils and the like, of synthetic
                       fibers, not knitted or crocheted
            6214 40    Shawls, scarves, veils and the like, of artificial
                       fibers, not knitted or crocheted
            6214 90    Shawls, scarves, veils and the like, of other
                       textile materials, not knitted or crocheted
            6215 10    Ties, bow ties and cravats, of silk or silk waste,
                       not knitted or crocheted
            6215 20    Ties, bow ties and cravats, of man-made fibers, not
                       knitted or crocheted
            6215 90    Ties, bow ties and cravats, of other textile
                       materials, not knitted or crocheted
            6216 00    Gloves, mittens and mitts, of textile materials,
                       not knitted or crocheted
            6217 10    Clothing accessories of textile materials, not
                       knitted or crocheted, nes
            6217 90    Parts of garments or of clothing accessories of
                       textile materials, not knitted or crocheted, nes 

            Chapter 63  Other made up textile articles; needlecraft sets;
            worn clothing and worn textile articles; rags

            6301 10    Electric blankets, of textile materials
            6301 20    Blankets (other than electric) and traveling rugs,
                       of wool or fine animal hair
            6301 30    Blankets (other than electric) and traveling rugs,
                       of cotton
            6301 40    Blankets (other than electric) and traveling rugs,
                       of synthetic fibers

                                 Annex 300-B                                

            HS No.     Description            HS No.     Description

            6301 90    Blankets (other than electric) and traveling rugs,
                       of other textile materials
            6302 10    Bed linen, of textile knitted or crocheted or
                       crocheted materials
            6302 21    Bed linen, of cotton, printed, not knitted or
                       crocheted
            6302 22    Bed linen, of man-made fibers, printed, not knitted
                       or crocheted
            6302 29    Bed linen, of other textile materials, printed, not
                       knitted or crocheted
            6302 31    Bed linen, of cotton, nes
            6302 32    Bed linen, of man-made fibers, nes
            6302 39    Bed linen, of other textile materials, nes
            6302 40    Table linen, of textile knitted or crocheted
                       materials
            6302 51    Table linen, of cotton, not knitted or crocheted
            6302 52    Table linen, of flax, not knitted or crocheted
            6302 53    Table linen, of man-made fibers, not knitted or
                       crocheted
            6302 59    Table linen, of other textile materials, not
                       knitted or crocheted
            6302 60    Toilet and kitchen linen, of terry toweling or
                       similar terry fabric, of cotton
            6302 91    Toilet and kitchen linen, of cotton, nes
            6302 92    Toilet and kitchen linen, of flax
            6302 93    Toilet and kitchen linen, of man-made fibers
            6302 99    Toilet and kitchen linen, of other textile
                       materials
            6303 11    Curtains, interior blinds and curtain or bed
                       valances, of cotton, knitted or crocheted
            6303 12    Curtains, interior blinds and curtain or bed
                       valances, of synthetic fiber, knitted or crocheted
            6303 19    Curtains, interior blinds and curtain or bed
                       valances, other textile materials, knitted or
                       crocheted
            6303 91    Curtains, interior blinds and curtain or bed
                       valances, of cotton, not knitted or crocheted
            6303 92    Curtains, interior blinds and curtain or bed
                       valances, of synthetic fiber, not knitted or
                       crocheted
            6303 99    Curtains, interior blinds and curtain or bed
                       valances, of other tex mat, not knitted or
                       crocheted
            6304 11    Bedspreads of textile materials, nes, knitted or
                       crocheted
            6304 19    Bedspreads of textile materials, nes, not knitted
                       or crocheted

                                 Annex 300-B                                

            HS No.     Description            HS No.     Description

            6304 91    Furnishing articles nes, of textile materials,
                       knitted or crocheted
            6304 92    Furnishing articles nes, of cotton, not knitted or
                       crocheted
            6304 93    Furnishing articles nes, of synthetic fibers, not
                       knitted or crocheted
            6304 99    Furnishing articles nes, of other textile
                       materials, not knitted or crocheted
            6305 10    Sacks and bags of jute or of other textile bast
                       fibers
            6305 20    Sacks and bags of cotton
            6305 31    Sacks and bags polyethylene or polypropylene strips
            6305 39    Sacks and bags of other man-made textile materials
            6305 90    Sacks and bags of other textile materials
            6306 11    Tarpaulins, awnings and sunblinds, of cotton
            6306 12    Tarpaulins, awnings and sunblinds, of synthetic
                       fibers
            6306 19    Tarpaulins, awnings and sunblinds, of other textile
                       materials
            6306 21    Tents, of cotton
            6306 22    Tents, of synthetic fibers
            6306 29    Tents, of other textile materials
            6306 31    Sails, of synthetic fibers
            6306 39    Sails, of other textile materials
            6306 41    Pneumatic mattresses, of cotton
            6306 49    Pneumatic mattresses, of other textile materials
            6306 91    Camping goods nes, of cotton
            6306 99    Camping goods nes, of other textile materials
            6307 10    Floor-cloths, dish-cloths, dusters and similar
                       cleaning cloths, of textile materials
            6307 20    Life jackets and life belts, of textile materials
            6307 90    Made up articles, of textile materials, nes,
                       including dress patterns
            6308 00    Sets of woven fabric and yarn, for rugs,
                       tapestries, and similar textile articles, for
                       retail sale
            6309 00 Worn clothing and other worn articles

            Chapter 64  Footwear, gaiters, and the like; parts of such
            articles

            ex 6405 20  Footwear with soles and uppers of wool felt
            ex 6406 10  Footwear uppers of which the external surface is
             50% textile material
            ex 6406 99  Leg warmers and gaiters of textile materials

            Chapter 65  Headgear and parts thereof

                               Annex 300-B                                  

            HS No.     Description            HS No.     Description

            6501 00    Hat-forms, hat bodies and hoods of felt; plateaux
                       and manchons of felt
            6502 00    Hat-shapes, plaited or made by assembling strips of
                       any material
            6503 00    Felt hats and other felt headgear
            6504 00    Hats and other headgear, plaited or made by
                       assembling strips of any material
            6505 90    Hats and other headgear, knitted or made up from
                       lace, or other textile materials

            Chapter 66  Umbrellas, sun umbrellas, walking sticks,
            seatsticks, whips, riding-crops and parts thereof

            6601 10    Umbrellas and sun umbrellas, garden type
            6601 91    Other umbrella types, telescopic shaft
            6601 99    Other umbrellas

            Chapter 70  Glass and glassware

            ex 7019 10  Yarn of fiber glass
                7019 20  Woven fabric of fiber glass

            Chapter 87  Vehicles other than railway or tramway rolling
            stock, and parts and accessories thereof

            8708 21    Safety seat belts for motor vehicles

            Chapter 88  Aircraft, spacecraft, and parts thereof

            8804 00    Parachutes; their parts and accessories

            Chapter 91  Clocks and watches and parts thereof

            9113 90    Watch straps, bands and bracelets of textile
                       materials 

            Chapter 94  Furniture; bedding, mattresses, mattress supports,
            cushions and similar stuffed furnishings

            ex 9404 90  Pillow and cushions of cotton; quilts; eiderdowns;
            comforters and sim articles of textile materials

            Chapter 95  Toys, games and sports requisites; parts and
            accessories thereof

            9502 91    Garments for dolls

                         Annex 300-B                                        

            HS No.     Description            HS No.     Description

            Chapter 96  Miscellaneous manufactured articles

            ex 9612 10  Woven ribbons, of man-made fibers, other than those
            <30 mm wide and permanently in cartridges


                                   Annex 300-B                              

                                      Appendix 2.1

                                   Tariff Elimination


            For purposes of this Appendix, each Party shall apply Section
            2(2) to determine whether a textile or apparel good is an
            originating good of a particular Party.


            A.  Trade between Canada and the United States

                 As required by Article 302, Canada and the United States
            each shall progressively eliminate its respective customs
            duties on originating textile and apparel goods of the other
            Party in accordance with Annex 401.2, as amended, of the Canada
            - United States Free Trade Agreement, as incorporated into
            Annex 302.2 and as set out in each Party's Schedule to that
            Annex.


            B.  Trade between Mexico and the United States

                 Except as provided in Schedule 2.1.B, and as required by
            Article 302, Mexico and the United States each shall
            progressively eliminate its respective customs duties on
            originating textile and apparel goods of the other Party, in
            accordance with its respective Schedule to Annex 302.2, as
            follows:

                 (a)   duties on textile and apparel goods provided for in
                       the items in staging category A in a Party's
                       Schedule shall be eliminated entirely and such
                       goods shall be duty-free, effective January 1,
                       1994;

                 (b)   duties on textile and apparel goods provided for in
                       the items in staging category B6 in a Party's
                       Schedule shall be reduced on January 1, 1994, by an
                       amount equal, in percentage terms, to the base
                       rates.  Thereafter, duties shall be removed in five
                       equal annual stages beginning on January 1, 1995,
                       and such goods shall be duty-free, effective
                       January 1, 1999;

                 (c)   duties on textile and apparel goods provided for in
                       the items in staging category C in a Party's
                       Schedule shall be removed in 10 equal annual stages

                                    Annex 300-B                             

                       beginning on January 1, 1994, and such goods shall
                       be duty-free, effective January 1, 2003; and

                 (d)   if the application of a formula provided in
                       subparagraph (b) or (c) for staging category B6 or
                       C results in a duty that exceeds 20 percent ad
                       valorem during any annual stage, the rate of duty
                       during that stage shall be 20 percent ad valorem
                       instead of the rate that otherwise would have
                       applied.


            C.  Trade between Canada and Mexico

                 As required by Article 302, Canada and Mexico each shall
            progressively eliminate its respective customs duties on
            originating textile and apparel goods of the other Party, in
            accordance with its respective Schedule to Annex 302.2, as
            follows:

                 (a)   duties on textile and apparel goods provided for in
                       the items in staging category A in a Party's
                       Schedule shall be eliminated entirely and such
                       goods shall be duty-free, effective January 1,
                       1994;

                 (b)   duties on textile and apparel goods provided for in
                       the items in staging category Bl in a Party's
                       Schedule shall be removed in six equal annual
                       stages beginning on January 1, 1994, and such goods
                       shall be duty-free, effective January 1, 1999;

                 (c)   duties on textile and apparel goods provided for in
                       the items in staging category B+ in a Party's
                       Schedule shall be reduced by the following
                       percentages of the base rates, beginning on January
                       1, 1994, and such goods shall be duty-free,
                       effective January 1, 2001

                           (i)  January 1, 1994, 20 percent
                           (ii)        January 1, 1995,  0 percent
                           (iii)       January 1, 1996, 10 percent
                           (iv)        January 1, 1997, 10 percent
                           (v)  January 1, 1998, 10 percent
                           (vi)        January 1, 1999, 10 percent
                           (vii)       January 1, 2000, 10 percent
                           (viii)      January 1, 2001, 30 percent and

                                   Annex 300-B                              


                 (d)   duties on textile and apparel goods provided for in
                       the items in staging category C in a Party's
                       Schedule shall be removed in 10 equal annual stages
                       beginning on January 1, 1994, and such goods shall
                       be duty-free, effective January 1, 2003.

            D.  Trade between All Parties

                 Originating textile and apparel goods provided for in the
            items in staging category D in a Party's Schedule to Annex
            302.2 shall continue to receive duty-free treatment.



                                     Schedule 2.1.B

                         Exceptions to Tariff Phase-out Formula
                               Specified in Appendix 2.1


            1.   The United States shall apply the following rates of duty
            on tariff items 5111.11.70, 5111.19.60, 5112.11.20 and
            5112.19.90 during the transition period:

                       1994                              25.0%
                       1995                              24.1%
                       1996                              18.0%
                       1997                              12.0%
                       1998                               6.0%
                       1999 and thereafter                     0.0%

            2.   Mexico shall apply the following rates of duty on tariff
            items 5111.11.01, 5111.19.99, 5112.11.01 and 5112.19.99, as
            modified to correspond to the U.S. tariff items identified in
            paragraph 1, during the transition period:

                       1994                              15.0%
                       1995                              14.5%
                       1996                              10.8%
                       1997                               7.2%
                       1998                               3.6%
                       1999 and thereafter                     0.0%

                             Annex 300-B                                    

            3.   The United States shall apply the following rates of duty
            on tariff items 5111.20.90, 5111.30.90, 5112.20.30, 5112.30.30,
            5407.91.05, 5407.92.05, 5407.93.05, 5407.94.05, 5408.31.05,
            5408.32.05, 5408.33.05, 5408.34.05, 5515.13.05, 5515.22.05,
            5515.92.05, 5516.31.05, 5516.32.05, 5516.33.05 and 5516.34.05
            during the transition period:

                       1994                              25.0%
                       1995                              25.0%
                       1996                              20.0%
                       1997                              13.3%
                       1998                               6.7%
                       1999 and thereafter                     0.0%


            4.   Mexico shall apply the following rates of duty on tariff
            items 5111.20.99, 5111.30.99, 5112.20.01, 5112.30.01,
            5407.91.99, 5407.92.99, 5407.93.99, 5407.94.99, 5408.31.99,
            5408.32.99, 5408.33.99, 5408.34.99, 5515.13.01, 5515.22.01,
            5515.92.01, 5516.31.01, 5516.32.01, 5516.33.01 and 5516.34.01,
            as modified to correspond to the U.S. tariff items identified
            in paragraph 3, during the transition period:

                       1994                              15.0%
                       1995                              15.0%
                       1996                              12.0%
                       1997                               8.0%
                       1998                               4.0%
                       1999 and thereafter                     0.0%


            5.   Mexico shall apply the following rates of duty on goods of
            subheadings 5703.20 and 5703.30 measuring not more than 5.25
            square meters in area, other than nylon hand-hooked, during the
            transition period:

                       1994                              20.0%
                       1995                              20.0%
                       1996                              10.0%
                       1997                               6.6%
                       1998                               3.3%
                       1999 and thereafter                     0.0%

                                 Annex 300-B                                

                                      Appendix 2.4

                Tariff Elimination on Certain Textile and Apparel Goods


                 On January 1, 1994, the United States shall eliminate
            customs duties on textile and apparel goods that are assembled
            in Mexico from fabrics wholly formed and cut in the United
            States and exported from and reimported into the United States
            under: 

                 (a)   U.S. tariff item 9802.00.80.10; or

                 (b)   Chapter 61, 62 or 63 if, after such assembly, those
                       goods that would have qualified for treatment under
                       9802.00.80.10 have been subject to bleaching,
                       garment dyeing, stone-washing, acid-washing or
                       perma-pressing.

            Thereafter, the United States shall not adopt or maintain any
            customs duty on textile and apparel goods of Mexico that
            satisfy the requirements of subparagraph (a) or (b) or the
            requirements of any successor provision to U.S. tariff item
            9802.00.80.10.


                                      Appendix 3.1

                   Administration of Import and Export Prohibitions,
                          Restrictions and Consultation Levels


            A.  Trade between Canada and Mexico and between Mexico and the
            United States

            1.   This Appendix applies to prohibitions, restrictions and
            consultation levels on non-originating textile and apparel
            goods.

            2.   An exporting Party whose textile or apparel good is
            subject to a prohibition, restriction or consultation level
            shall limit its annual exports to the specified limits or
            levels, and the importing Party may assist the exporting Party
            in implementing the prohibition, restriction or consultation
            level by controlling its imports.

                            Annex 300-B                                     

            3.   Each Party shall count exports of textile and apparel
            goods subject to a restriction or consultation level against
            the limit or level:

                 (a)   applicable to the calendar year in which the good
                       was exported; or

                 (b)   authorized for the following year if such exports
                       exceed the authorized limit or level for the
                       calendar year in which the good was exported, if
                       allowed entry into the territory of the importing
                       Party.

            4.   Each exporting Party whose goods are subject to a
            restriction or consultation level shall endeavor to space
            exports of such goods to the territory of the importing Party
            evenly throughout each calendar year, taking into consideration
            normal seasonal factors.

            5.   On written request of an exporting Party whose goods are
            subject to a prohibition, restriction or consultation level,
            that Party and the importing Party shall consult within 30 days
            of receipt of the request on any matter arising from the
            implementation of this Appendix.

            6.   On written request of an exporting Party that considers
            the application of a prohibition, restriction or consultation
            level under this Annex has placed it in an inequitable position
            in relation to another Party or a non-Party, the exporting
            Party and importing Party shall consult within 60 days of
            receipt of the request to seek a mutually beneficial solution.

            7.   An importing Party and an exporting Party, at any time by
            mutual agreement, may adjust annual Designated Consultation
            Levels (DCLs) as follows:

                 (a)   if the exporting Party whose goods are subject to a
                       DCL wishes to export goods in any category in
                       excess of the applicable DCL in any calendar year,
                       that Party may present to the importing Party a
                       formal written request for an increase in the DCL;
                       and

                 (b)   the importing Party shall respond, in writing,
                       within 30 days of the receipt of the request.  If
                       the response is negative, the Parties concerned
                       shall consult no later than 15 days after the
                       receipt of the response or as soon thereafter as

                                    Annex 300-B                             

                       mutually convenient, and shall endeavor to reach a
                       mutually satisfactory solution.  The Parties
                       concerned shall confirm any agreement reached on a
                       new DCL by an exchange of letters.

            8.   Adjustments to annual specific limits (SLs), including
            those set out in Schedule 3.1.2, may be made as follows:

                 (a)   an exporting Party wishing to adjust an SL shall
                       deliver a notice to the importing Party of its
                       intent to make an adjustment;

                 (b)   the exporting Party may increase the SL for a
                       calendar year by no more than six percent
                       ("swing"); and

                 (c)   in addition to any increase of its SL under
                       subparagraph (b), the exporting Party may increase
                       its unadjusted SL for that year by no more than 11
                       percent by allocating to such SL for that calendar
                       year (the "receiving year") an unused portion
                       ("shortfall") of the corresponding SL for the
                       previous calendar year ("carryover") or a portion
                       of the corresponding SL for the following calendar
                       year ("carryforward"), as follows:

                       (i)      subject to subparagraph (iii), the
                                exporting Party may utilize carryover, as
                                available, up to 11 percent of the
                                unadjusted SL for the receiving year,

                       (ii)     the exporting Party may utilize
                                carryforward charged against the
                                corresponding SL for the following calendar
                                year, up to six percent of the unadjusted
                                SL for the receiving year,

                       (iii)    the combination of the exporting Party's
                                carryover and carryforward shall not exceed
                                11 percent of the unadjusted SL in the
                                receiving year, and

                       (iv)     carryover may be utilized only following
                                confirmation by the importing Party that
                                sufficient shortfall exists.  If the
                                importing Party does not consider that
                                sufficient shortfall exists, it shall
                                promptly provide data to the exporting

                            Annex 300-B                                     

                                Party to support that view.  Where
                                substantial statistical differences exist
                                between the import and export data on which
                                the shortfall is computed, the Parties
                                concerned shall seek to resolve these
                                differences promptly.


            B.  Trade between Mexico and the United States

            9.   During the transition period, non-originating textile and
            apparel goods of Mexico exported to the United States shall be
            subject to the restrictions and consultation levels specified
            in Schedule 3.1.2, in accordance with this Appendix and its
            Schedules.  Such restrictions and consultation levels shall be
            progressively eliminated as follows:

                 (a)   restrictions or consultation levels on items
                       contained in the categories of textile and apparel
                       goods in staging category 1 in Schedule 3.1.1 shall
                       be eliminated on January 1, 1994;

                 (b)   restrictions or consultation levels on items
                       contained in the categories of textile and apparel
                       goods in staging category 2 in Schedule 3.1.1 shall
                       be eliminated on January 1, 2001; and

                 (c)   restrictions or consultation levels on items
                       contained in the categories of textile and apparel
                       goods in staging category 3 in Schedule 3.1.1 shall
                       be eliminated on January 1, 2004.

            10.  In addition, on January 1, 1994, the United States shall
            eliminate restrictions or consultation levels on textile and
            apparel goods that are assembled in Mexico from fabrics wholly
            formed and cut in the United States and exported from and
            reimported into the United States under:  

                 (a)   U.S. tariff item 9802.00.80.10; or

                 (b)   Chapter 61, 62 or 63 if, after such assembly, those
                       goods that would have qualified for treatment under
                       9802.00.80.10 have been subject to bleaching,
                       garment dyeing, stone-washing, acid-washing or
                       perma-pressing.

            Thereafter, notwithstanding Section 5, the United States shall
            not adopt or maintain prohibitions, restrictions or

                                 Annex 300-B                                

            consultation levels on textile and apparel goods of Mexico that
            satisfy the requirements of subparagraph (a) or (b) or the
            requirements of any successor provision to U.S. tariff item
            9802.00.80.10.

            11.  Mexico and the United States may identify at any time
            particular textile and apparel goods that they mutually agree
            fall within:

                 (a)   hand-loomed fabrics of a cottage industry;

                 (b)   hand-made cottage industry goods made of such hand-
                       loomed fabrics; or

                 (c)   traditional folklore handicraft goods. 

            The importing Party shall exempt from restrictions and
            consultation levels goods so identified, if certified by the
            competent authority of the exporting Party.

            12.  The Bilateral Textile Agreement Between the United States
            of America and the United Mexican States, signed at Mazatl n,
            February 13, 1988, as amended and extended (the Bilateral
            Agreement), shall terminate on the date of entry into force of
            this Agreement.

            13.  On request of either Party, the Parties shall consult to
            consider accelerating the elimination of restrictions or
            consultation levels set out in Schedule 3.1.2 on specific
            textile and apparel goods.  An agreement between the Parties to
            accelerate the elimination of a restriction or consultation
            level shall supersede Schedule 3.1.1 when approved by each such
            Party in accordance with Article 2202(2) (Amendments).

            14.  During 1994, Mexico may carry over any unused portion of
            the 1993 limit specified in the Bilateral Agreement, or apply
            against the 1994 limit specified in this Appendix any exports
            made during 1993 in excess of the applicable limit under the
            Bilateral Agreement, in accordance with the flexibility
            provisions set forth in paragraph 8.

            15.  All exports of textile and apparel goods from the
            territory of Mexico to the territory of the United States
            covered by restrictions or consultation levels under this
            Appendix shall be accompanied by an export visa issued by the
            competent authority of Mexico, pursuant to any bilateral visa
            arrangement in effect between the Parties.

                               Annex 300-B                                  

            16.  On written request of either Party, both Parties shall
            consult within 30 days of receipt of the request on any matter
            arising from the implementation of this Appendix.  In addition,
            on written request of either Party, both Parties shall conduct
            a review of this Appendix by January 1, 1999.

            17.  For purposes of applying prohibitions, restrictions or
            consultation levels, each Party shall consider a good as being
            of:

                 (a)   man-made fibers if the good is in chief weight of
                       man-made fibers, unless

                       (i)      the good is knitted or crocheted apparel in
                                which wool equals or exceeds 23 percent by
                                weight of all fibers, in which case it
                                shall be of wool,

                       (ii)     the good is apparel, not knitted or
                                crocheted, in which wool equals or exceeds
                                36 percent by weight of all fibers, in
                                which case it shall be of wool, or

                       (iii)    the good is a woven fabric in which wool
                                equals or exceeds 36 percent by weight of
                                all fibers, in which case it shall be of
                                wool;

                 (b)   cotton, if not covered by subparagraph (a) and if
                       the good is in chief weight of cotton, unless the
                       good is a woven fabric in which wool equals or
                       exceeds 36 percent by weight of all fibers, in
                       which case it shall be of wool;

                 (c)   wool, if not covered by subparagraph (a) or (b),
                       and the good is in chief weight of wool; and

                 (d)   non-cotton vegetable fiber, if not covered by
                       subparagraph (a), (b) or (c), and the good is in
                       chief weight of non-cotton vegetable fiber, unless

                       (i)      cotton with wool and/or man-made fibers in
                                the aggregate equal or exceed 50 percent by
                                weight of the component fibers thereof and
                                the cotton component equals or exceeds the
                                weight of each of the total wool and/or
                                man-made fiber components, in which case it
                                shall be of cotton,

                                   Annex 300-B                              

                       (ii)     if not covered by subparagraph (i) and wool
                                exceeds 17 percent by weight of all
                                component fibers, in which case it shall be
                                of wool, or

                       (iii)    if not covered by subparagraph (i) or (ii)
                                and man-made fibers in combination with
                                cotton and/or wool in the aggregate equal
                                or exceed 50 percent by weight of the
                                component fibers thereof and the man-made
                                fiber component exceeds the weight of the
                                total wool and/or total cotton component,
                                in which case it shall be of man-made
                                fibers.

            For purposes of this paragraph, only the textile fibers in the
            component of the good that determines the tariff classification
            of the good are to be considered.


            C.  Schedules

                 To determine which HS provisions are contained in a U.S.
            category listed in the Schedules to this Appendix, the Parties
            shall refer to the Correlation: Textile and Apparel Categories
            with the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States, 1992
            (or successor document), U.S. Department of Commerce,
            International Trade Administration, Office of Textiles and
            Apparel, Trade and Data Division, Washington, D.C.  The
            descriptions listed in these Schedules are provided for ease of
            reference only.  For legal purposes, coverage of a category
            shall be determined according to the Correlation.


                                     Schedule 3.1.1

                      Schedule for the Elimination of Restrictions
              and Consultation Levels on Exports from Mexico to the United
            States


                              A. Special Regime (SR) Goods

            Category       Description                             Staging
                                                                   Category

            335 SR         C W&G Coats, Special Regime                  1
            336/636 SR     C/MMF Dresses, Special Regime                1

                              Annex 300-B                                   

            338/339/638/639 SR  C/MMF Knit Shirts, Special Regime       1
            340/640 SR     C/MMF Woven Shirts, Special Regime           1
            341/641 SR     C/MMF Blouses, Special Regime                1
            342/642 SR     C/MMF Skirts, Special Regime                 1
            347/348/647/648 SR  C/MMF Trousers, Special Regime          1
            351/651 SR     C/MMF Pyjamas, etc. Special Regime           1
            352/652 SR     C/MMF Underwear, Special Regime              1
            359-C/659-C SR C/MMF Coveralls, Special Regime              1
            633 SR         MMF Suit Coats, Special Regime               1
            635 SR         MMF Coats, Special Regime                    1


                                B. Non-originating Goods

            Category       Description                             Staging
                                                                   Category

            Broadwoven Fabric
              Group        C/MMF                                   1
            218            C/MMF Fabrics/Yarns of Different Colors      1
            219            C/MMF Duck Fabric                       2
            220            C/MMF Fabric of Special Weave                1
            225            C/MMF Denim Fabric                      1
            226            C/MMF Cheesecloth, Batistes                  1
            227            C/MMF Oxford Cloth                      1
            300/301/607-Y       C Combed/Carded Yarn; etc.              1
            313            C Sheeting Fabric                       2
            314            C Poplin and Broadcloth Fabric               2
            315            C Printcloth Fabric                     2

            Category       Description                             Staging
                                                                   Category

            317            C Twill Fabric                               2
            326            C Sateen Fabric                              1
            334/634        C/MMF Men's and Boys' Coats                  1
            335 NR         C Coats, Women's and Girls'                  1
            336/636 NR     C/MMF Dresses                           1
            338/339/638/639 NR C/MMF Knit Shirts and Blouses            2
            340/640 NR     C/MMF Woven Shirts                      2
            341/641 NR     C/MMF Woven Blouses                     1
            342/642        C/MMF Skirts                                 1
            347/348/647/648 NR C/MMF Trousers and Pants                 2
            351/651        C/MMF Pyjamas and Nightwear                  1
            352/652 NR     C/MMF Underwear                         1
            359-C/659-C NR C/MMF Coveralls                         1
            363            C Terry and Pile towels                      1
            410            Woven Wool Fabric                       3


                            Annex 300-B                                     

            433            W Men's and Boys' Suit-type Coats            3
            435            W Women's and Girls' Coats                   1
            443            W Men's and Boys' Suits                      3
            604-A               Acrylic Spun Yarn                       1
            604-O/607-O         Staple Fiber Yarn                       1
            611            Artificial Staple Fiber Woven Fabric         3
            613            MMF Sheeting Fabric                     1
            614            MMF Poplin & Broadcloth Fabric               1
            615            MMF Printcloth Fabric                        1
            617            MMF Twill & Sateen Fabric                    1
            625            MMF Poplin/Broadcloth Staple/Filament        1
            626            MMF Printcloth Staple/Filament               1
            627            MMF Sheeting Staple/Filament                 1
            628            MMF Twill/Sateen Staple/Filament             1
            629            MMF Other Staple/Filament Fabric             1
            633 NR         MMF Suit-Type Coats, M&B                2
            635            Women's and Girls' MMF Coats                 1
            643            MMF Suits for Men and Boys                   2
            669-B               Polypropylene Bags                      1
            670            MMF Luggage, Flat Goods Etc.                 1



            For purposes of this Schedule:

                 C means cotton;

                 M&B means men's and boys';

                 MMF means man-made fiber;

                 NR means normal regime;

                 W means wool; and

                 W&G means women's and girls'.


                                     Schedule 3.1.2

                          Restrictions and Consultation Levels
                      on Exports from Mexico to the United States


                                Unit of
            Category   Form     Measure             1994                    
                                         1995
                                                              1996  
                                                                            
            219        DCL        SM       9,438,000 9,438,000 9,438,000
            313        DCL        SM      16,854,00016,854,00016,854,000
            314        DCL        SM       6,966,904 6,966,904 6,966,904
            315        DCL        SM       6,966,904 6,966,904 6,966,904
            317        DCL        SM       8,427,000 8,427,000 8,427,000
            611        DCL        SM       1,267,710 1,267,710 1,267,710
            410        DCL        SM         397,160   397,160   397,160

                                Unit of
            Category   Form     Measure             1994                    
                                         1995
                                                              1996  

            338/339/
              638/639  DCL        DZ         650,000   650,000   650,000
            340/640     SL               DZ       120,439   128,822         
                                                       137,788
            347/348/
              647/648  DCL        DZ         650,000   650,000   650,000
            433        DCL        DZ          11,000    11,000    11,000
            443         SL               NO       150,000   156,000         
                                                       162,240
            633        DCL        DZ          10,000    10,000    10,000
            643        DCL        NO         155,556   155,556   155,556


            Category      1997                 1998      1999      2000  

            219        9,438,000           9,438,000 9,438,000 9,438,000
            313       16,854,000          16,854,00016,854,00016,854,000
            314        6,966,904           6,966,904 6,966,904 6,966,904
            315        6,966,904           6,966,904 6,966,904 6,966,904
            317        8,427,000           8,427,000 8,427,000 8,427,000
            611        1,267,710           1,267,710 1,267,710 1,267,710
            410          397,160             397,160   397,160   397,160
            338/339/
              638/639    650,000             650,000   650,000   650,000
            340/640      147,378             160,200   174,137   189,287
            347/348/
              647/648    650,000             650,000   650,000   650,000
            433           11,000              11,000    11,000    11,000
            443          168,730             175,479   182,498   189,798
            633           10,000              10,000    10,000    10,000
            643          155,556             155,556   155,556   155,556


            Category      2001                 2002           2003  

            611        1,267,710           1,267,710      1,267,710
            410          397,160             397,160        397,160
            433           11,000              11,000         11,000

                                Annex 300-B                                 

            443          197,390             205,286        213,496


                                     Schedule 3.1.3

                                   Conversion Factors

            1.   This Schedule applies to restrictions and consultation
            levels applied pursuant to Section 5 and paragraph 9 of
            Appendix 3.1, and to tariff preference levels applied pursuant
            to Section 6 and Appendix 6.

            2.   Unless otherwise provided in this Annex, or as may be
            mutually agreed between any two Parties with respect to trade
            between them, the rates of conversion into SME set out in
            paragraphs 3 through 6 shall apply.

            3.   The following conversion factors shall apply to the goods
            covered by the following U.S. categories:

                                                                    Primary
            U.S.       Conversion      Description                  Unit of
            Category   Factor                                       Measure

            200         6.60           YARN FOR RETAIL SALE, SEWING THREAD  
                                                                      KG
            201         6.50           SPECIALTY YARNS                   KG
            218         1.00           FABRIC OF YARNS OF DIFFERENT COLORS  
                                                                      SM
            219         1.00           DUCK FABRIC                       SM
            220         1.00           FABRIC OF SPECIAL WEAVE           SM
            222         6.00           KNIT FABRIC                       KG
            223        14.00           NON-WOVEN FABRIC                  KG
            224         1.00           PILE & TUFTED FABRIC              SM
            225         1.00           BLUE DENIM FABRIC                 SM
            226         1.00           CHEESECLOTH, BATISTE, LAWN & VOILESM
            227         1.00           OXFORD CLOTH                      SM
            229        13.60           SPECIAL PURPOSE FABRIC            KG
            237        19.20           PLAYSUITS, SUNSUITS, ETC          DZ
            239         6.30           BABIES' GARMENTS & CLOTHING ACCESS.  
                                                                      KG
            300         8.50           CARDED COTTON YARN                KG
            301         8.50           COMBED COTTON YARN                KG
            313         1.00           COTTON SHEETING FABRIC            SM
            314         1.00           COTTON POPLIN & BROADCLOTH FABRIC SM
            315         1.00           COTTON PRINTCLOTH FABRIC          SM
            317         1.00           COTTON TWILL FABRIC               SM
            326         1.00           COTTON SATEEN FABRIC              SM
            330         1.40           COTTON HANDKERCHIEFS              DZ
            331         2.90           COTTON GLOVES AND MITTENS        DPR
            332         3.80           COTTON HOSIERY                   DPR

                              Annex 300-B                                   

            333        30.30           M&B SUIT-TYPE COATS, COTTON       DZ
            334        34.50           OTHER M&B COATS, COTTON           DZ
            335        34.50           W&G COTTON COATS                  DZ
            336        37.90           COTTON DRESSES                    DZ
            338         6.00           M&B COTTON KNIT SHIRTS            DZ
            339         6.00           W&G COTTON KNIT SHIRTS/BLOUSES    DZ
            340        20.10           M&B COTTON SHIRTS, NOT KNIT       DZ
            341        12.10           W&G COTTON SHIRTS/BLOUSES,NOT KNITDZ
            342        14.90           COTTON SKIRTS                     DZ
            345        30.80           COTTON SWEATERS                   DZ
            347        14.90    M&B COTTON TROUSERS/BREECHES/SHORTS      DZ
            348        14.90           W&G COTTON TROUSERS/BREECHES/SHORTS  
                                                                      DZ
            349         4.00           BRASSIERES, OTHER BODY SUPPORT
                                       GARMENTS                          DZ
            350        42.60    COTTON DRESSING GOWNS, ROBES ETC.        DZ
            351        43.50           COTTON NIGHTWEAR/PAJAMAS          DZ
            352         9.20           COTTON UNDERWEAR                  DZ
            353        34.50           M&B COTTON DOWN-FILLED COATS      DZ
            354        34.50           W&G COTTON DOWN-FILLED COATS      DZ
            359         8.50           OTHER COTTON APPAREL              KG
            360         0.90           COTTON PILLOWCASES                NO
            361         5.20           COTTON SHEETS                     NO
            362         5.80           OTHER COTTON BEDDING              NO
            363         0.40           COTTON TERRY & OTHER PILE TOWELS  NO
            369         8.50           OTHER COTTON MANUFACTURES         KG
            400         3.70           WOOL YARN                         KG
            410         1.00           WOOL WOVEN FABRIC                 SM
            414         2.80           OTHER WOOL FABRIC                 KG
            431         1.80           WOOL GLOVES/MITTENS              DPR
            432         2.30           WOOL HOSIERY                     DPR
            433        30.10           M&B WOOL SUIT-TYPE COATS          DZ
            434        45.10           OTHER M&B WOOL COATS              DZ
            435        45.10           W&G WOOL COATS                    DZ
            436        41.10           WOOL DRESSES                      DZ
            438        12.50           WOOL KNIT SHIRTS/BLOUSES          DZ
            439         6.30           BABIES' WOOL GARM/CLOTHING ACCESS.KG
            440        20.10           WOOL SHIRTS/BLOUSES, NOT-KNIT     DZ
            442        15.00           WOOL SKIRTS                       DZ
            443         3.76           M&B WOOL SUITS                    NO
            444         3.76           W&G WOOL SUITS                    NO
            445        12.40           M&B WOOL SWEATERS                 DZ
            446        12.40           W&G WOOL SWEATERS                 DZ
            447        15.00           M&B WOOL TROUSERS/BREECHES/SHORTS DZ
            448        15.00           W&G WOOL TROUSERS/BREECHES/SHORTS DZ
            459         3.70           OTHER WOOL APPAREL                KG
            464         2.40           WOOL BLANKETS                     KG
            465         1.00           WOOL FLOOR COVERINGS              SM
            469         3.70           OTHER WOOL MANUFACTURES           KG

                              Annex 300-B                                   
                                                                    Primary 
                                                                  Primary
            U.S.       Conversion      Description                  Unit of 
          U.S.       Conversion      Description                  Unit of
            Category   Factor                                       Measure 
          Category   Factor                                       Measure



            600         6.50           TEXTURED FILAMENT YARN            KG
            603         6.30           YARN  85% ARTIFICIAL STAPLE FIBER KG
            604         7.60           YARN  85% SYNTHETIC STAPLE FIBER  KG
            606        20.10           NON-TEXTURED FILAMENT YARN        KG
            607         6.50           OTHER STAPLE FIBER YARN           KG
            611         1.00           WOVEN FABRIC  85% ARTIFICIAL STAPLE  
                                                                      SM
            613         1.00           MMF SHEETING FABRIC               SM
            614         1.00           MMF POPLIN & BROADCLOTH FABRIC    SM
            615         1.00           MMF PRINTCLOTH FABRIC             SM
            617         1.00           MMF TWILL AND SATEEN FABRIC       SM
            618         1.00           WOVEN ARTIFICIAL FILAMENT FABRIC  SM
            619         1.00           POLYESTER FILAMENT FABRIC         SM
            620         1.00           OTHER SYNTHETIC FILAMENT FABRIC   SM
            621        14.40           IMPRESSION FABRIC                 KG
            622         1.00           GLASS FIBER FABRIC                SM
            624         1.00           WOVEN MMF FABRIC, 15% TO 36% WOOL SM
            625         1.00           MMF STAPLE/FILAMENT POPLIN &
                                       BROADCLOTH FABRIC                 SM
            626         1.00           MMF STAPLE/FILAMENT PRINTCLOTH
                                       FABRIC                            SM
            627         1.00           MMF STAPLE/FILAMENT SHEETING FABRIC  
                                                                      SM
            628         1.00           MMF STAPLE/FILAMENT TWILL/SATEEN
                                       FABRIC                            SM
            629         1.00           OTHER MMF STAPLE/FILAMENT FABRIC  SM
            630         1.40           MMF HANDKERCHIEFS                 DZ
            631         2.90           MMF GLOVES AND MITTENS           DPR
            632         3.80           MMF HOSIERY                      DPR
            633        30.30           M&B MMF SUIT-TYPE COATS           DZ
            634        34.50           OTHER M&B MMF COATS               DZ
            635        34.50           W&G MMF COATS                     DZ
            636        37.90           MMF DRESSES                       DZ
            638        15.00           M&B MMF KNIT SHIRTS               DZ
            639        12.50           W&G MMF KNIT SHIRTS & BLOUSES     DZ
            640        20.10           M&B NOT-KNIT MMF SHIRTS           DZ
            641        12.10           W&G NOT-KNIT MMF SHIRTS & BLOUSES DZ
            642        14.90           MMF SKIRTS                        DZ
            643         3.76           M&B MMF SUITS                     NO
            644         3.76           W&G MMF SUITS                     NO
            645        30.80           M&B MMF SWEATERS                  DZ
            646        30.80           W&G MMF SWEATERS                  DZ
            647        14.90           M&B MMF TROUSERS/BREECHES/SHORTS  DZ
            648        14.90           W&G MMF TROUSERS/BREECHES/SHORTS  DZ

                               Annex 300-B                                  
                                                                    Primary 
                                                                  Primary
            U.S.       Conversion      Description                  Unit of 
          U.S.       Conversion      Description                  Unit of
            Category   Factor                                       Measure 
          Category   Factor                                       Measure



            649         4.00           MMF BRAS & OTHER BODY SUPPORT
                                       GARMENTS                          DZ
            650        42.60           MMF ROBES, DRESSING GOWNS, ETC.   DZ
            651        43.50           MMF NIGHTWEAR & PAJAMAS           DZ
            652        13.40           MMF UNDERWEAR                     DZ
            653        34.50           M&B MMF DOWN-FILLED COATS         DZ
            654        34.50           W&G MMF DOWN-FILLED COATS         DZ
            659        14.40           OTHER MMF APPAREL                 KG
            665         1.00           MMF FLOOR COVERINGS               SM
            666        14.40           OTHER MMF FURNISHINGS             KG
            669        14.40           OTHER MMF MANUFACTURES            KG
            670         3.70           MMF FLAT GOODS, HANDBAGS, LUGGAGE KG
            800         8.50           YARN, SILK BLENDS/VEGETABLE FIBER KG
            810         1.00           WOVEN FABRIC, SILK BLENDS/VEGETABLE
                                       FIBER                             SM
            831         2.90           GLOVES & MITTENS, SILK
                                       BLENDS/VEGETABLE FIBER           DPR
            832         3.80           HOSIERY, SILK BLENDS/VEGETABLE
                                       FIBER                            DPR
            833        30.30           M&B SUIT-TYPE COATS, SILK
                                       BLENDS/VEGETABLE FIBER            DZ
            834        34.50           OTHER M&B COATS, SILK
                                       BLENDS/VEGETABLE FIBER            DZ
            835        34.50           W&G COATS, SILK BLENDS/VEGETABLE
                                       FIBER                             DZ
            836        37.90           DRESSES, SILK BLENDS/VEGETABLE
                                       FIBER                             DZ
            838        11.70           KNIT SHIRTS & BLOUSES, SILK
                                       BLENDS/VEGETABLE FIBER            DZ
            839         6.30           BABIES' GARM & CLOTHING
                                       ACCESSORIES, SILK/VEG FIBER       KG
            840        16.70           NOT-KNIT SHIRTS & BLOUSES, SILK
                                       BLENDS/                           DZ
                                VEGETABLE FIBER
            842        14.90           SKIRTS, SILK BLENDS/VEGETABLE
                                       FIBERS                            DZ
            843         3.76           M&B SUITS, SILK BLENDS/VEGETABLE
                                       FIBER                             NO
            844         3.76           W&G SUITS, SILK BLENDS/VEGETABLE
                                       FIBER                             NO
            845        30.80           SWEATERS, NON-COTTON VEGETABLE
                                       FIBERS                            DZ
            846        30.80           SWEATERS, SILK BLENDS             DZ

                                 Annex 300-B                                

                                                                    Primary 
                                                                  Primary
            U.S.       Conversion      Description                  Unit of 
          U.S.       Conversion      Description                  Unit of
            Category   Factor                                       Measure 
          Category   Factor                                       Measure



            847        14.90           TROUSERS/BREECHES/SHORTS, SILK
                                       BLENDS/                           DZ
                                VEGETABLE FIBER
            850        42.60           ROBES, DRESSING GOWNS, ETC, SILK
                                       BLENDS/                           DZ
                                VEGETABLE FIBER
            851        43.50           NIGHTWEAR & PYJAMAS, SILK
                                       BLENDS/VEGETABLE FIBER            DZ
            852        11.30           UNDERWEAR, SILK BLENDS/VEGETABLE
                                       FIBER                             DZ
            858         6.60           NECKWEAR, SILK BLENDS/VEGETABLE
                                       FIBER                             KG
            859        12.50           OTHER SILK BLEND/VEGETABLE FIBER
                                       APPAREL                           KG
            863         0.40           TOWELS, SILK BLENDS/VEGETABLE
                                       FIBERS                            NO
            870         3.70           LUGGAGE, SILK BLENDS/VEGETABLE
                                       FIBERS                            KG
            871         3.70           HANDBAGS & FLATGOODS, SILK
                                       BLENDS/VEGETABLE FIBER            KG
            899        11.10           OTHER SILK BLENDS/VEGETABLE FIBER
                                       MANUFACTURES                      KG

                                Annex 300-B                                 

            4.  The following conversion factors shall apply to the
            following goods not covered by a U.S. category:

            U.S.
            Harmonized
            System                     Primary                           
            Statistical    Conversion          Unit of
            Provision  Factor   Measure        Description

            5208.31.2000   1.00                SM   WOVEN FABRIC, 85%>
                                                    COTTON, <100G/M2
                                                    CERTIFIED HAND-LOOM
                                                    FABRIC, DYED
            5208.32.1000   1.00                SM   WOVEN FABRIC, 85%>
                                                    COTTON, 100-200G/M2
                                                    CERTIFIED HAND-LOOM
                                                    FABRIC, DYED
            5208.41.2000   1.00                SM   WOVEN FABRIC,  85%
                                                    COTTON  100G/M2
                                                    CERTIFIED HAND-LOOM,
                                                    YARNS OF DIFFERENT
                                                    COLORS
            5208.42.1000   1.00                SM   WOVEN FABRIC,  85%
                                                    COTTON 100-200G/M2
                                                    CERTIFIED HAND-LOOM,
                                                    YARNS OF DIFFERENT
                                                    COLORS
            5208.51.2000   1.00                SM   WOVEN FABRIC, 85%>
                                                    COTTON  100G/M2 PLAIN
                                                    WEAVE, CERTIFIED HAND-
                                                    LOOM, PRINTED
            5208.52.1000   1.00                SM   WOVEN FABRIC,  85%
                                                    COTTON 100-200G/M2
                                                    PLAIN WEAVE, CERTIFIED
                                                    HAND-LOOM, PRINTED
            5209.31.3000   1.00                SM   WOVEN FABRIC, 85%>
                                                    COTTON >200G/M2 PLAIN
                                                    WEAVE, CERTIFIED HAND-
                                                    LOOM, DYED
            5209.41.3000   1.00                SM   WOVEN FABRIC, 85%>
                                                    COTTON >200G/M2, PLAIN
                                                    WEAVE, YARNS OF
                                                    DIFFERENT COLOR
            5209.51.3000   1.00                SM   WOVEN FABRIC, >85%
                                                    COTTON >200G/M2, PLAIN
                                                    WEAVE, CERTIFIED HAND-
                                                    LOOM, PRINTED

                                Annex 300-B                                 

            5307.10.0000   8.50                KG   YARN, JUTE OR OTHER
                                                    TEXTILE BAST FIBER
                                                    (EXCLUDING
                                                    FLAX/HEMP/RAMIE),
                                                    SINGLE
            5307.20.0000   8.50                KG   YARN, JUTE OR OTHER
                                                    TEXTILE BAST FIBER (EX.
                                                    FLAX/HEMP/RAMIE),
                                                    MULTIPLE/CABLE
            5308.10.0000   8.50                KG   YARN, COIR 
            5308.30.0000   8.50                KG   YARN, PAPER 
            5310.10.0020   1.00                SM   WOVEN FABRIC, JUTE OR
                                                    OTHER TEXTILE BAST
                                                    FIBER (EX
                                                    FLAX/HEMP/RAMIE),
                                                     130CM WIDE, UNBLEACHED
            5310.10.0040   1.00                SM   WOVEN FABRIC, JUTE OR
                                                    OTHER TEXTILE BAST
                                                    FIBER (EX
                                                    FLAX/HEMP/RAMIE) >130
                                                    TO  250 CM WIDE,
                                                    UNBLEACHED
            5310.10.0060   1.00                SM   WOVEN FABRIC, JUTE OR
                                                    OTHER TEXTILE BAST
                                                    FIBER (EX
                                                    FLAX/HEMP/RAMIE), >250
                                                    CM WIDE, UNBLEACHED
            5310.90.0000   1.00                SM   WOVEN FABRIC, JUTE OR
                                                    OTHER TEXTILE BAST
                                                    FIBER (EXCLUDING
                                                    FLAX/HEMP/RAMIE), NES
            5311.00.6000   1.00                SM   WOVEN FABRIC OF PAPER
                                                    YARN
            5402.10.3020   20.10               KG   NYLON HIGH TENACITY
                                                    YARN, <5 TURNS PER
                                                    METER, NOT FOR RETAIL
                                                    SALE
            5402.20.3020   20.10               KG   POLYESTER HIGH TENACITY
                                                    YARN, <5 TURNS PER
                                                    METER, NOT FOR RETAIL
                                                    SALE
            5402.41.0010   20.10               KG   NYLON MULTIFILAMENT
                                                    YARN, PARTIALLY
                                                    ORIENTED, UNTWIST/TWIST
                                                    <5 TURNS/METER, NOT FOR
                                                    RETAIL SALE
            5402.41.0020   20.10               KG   NYLON MONO/MULTFILAMENT
                                                    YARN, UNTWIST/TWIST <5
                               Annex 300-B                                  


            U.S.            U.S.
            Harmonized            Harmonized
            System                     Primary            System            
        Primary
            Statistical    Conversion  Unit of            Statistical   
Conversion  Unit of
            Provision  Factor   Measure        Description           
Provision  Factor   Measure        Description
            

                                                    TURNS/METER, NOT FOR
                                                    RETAIL SALE, NES
            5402.41.0030   20.10               KG   NYLON
                                                    MONO/MULTIFILAMENT
                                                    YARN, UNTWIST/TWIST <5
                                                    TURNS/METER, NOT FOR
                                                    RETAIL SALE
            5402.42.0000   20.10               KG   POLYESTER YARN,
                                                    PARTIALLY ORIENTED,
                                                    UNTWIST/TWIST   50
                                                    TURNS/METER, NOT FOR
                                                    RETAIL SALE
            5402.43.0020   20.10               KG   POLYESTER YARN,
                                                    MONOFILAMENT,
                                                    UNTWIST/TWIST  5
                                                    TURNS/METER, NOT FOR
                                                    RETAIL SALE
            5402.49.0010   20.10               KG   POLYETHYLENE/POLYPROPYL
                                                    ENE FILAMENT YARN,
                                                    UNTWIST/TWIST <5
                                                    TURNS/METER, NOT FOR
                                                    RETAIL SALE
            5402.49.0050   20.10               KG   SYNTHETIC FILAMENT
                                                    YARN, UNTWIST/TWIST <5
                                                    TURNS/METER, NOT FOR
                                                    RETAIL SALE, NES
            5403.10.3020   20.10               KG   VISCOSE RAYON HIGH
                                                    TENACITY FILAMENT YARN,
                                                    UNTWIST/TWIST <5
                                                    TURNS/METER, NOT FOR
                                                    RETAIL SALE
            5403.31.0020   20.10               KG   VISCOSE RAYON FILAMENT
                                                    YARN, SINGLE,
                                                    UNTWIST/TWIST <5
                                                    TURNS/METER, NOT FOR
                                                    RETAIL SALE
            5403.33.0020   20.10               KG   CELLULOSE ACETATE
                                                    FILAMENT YARN, SINGLE,
                                                    UNTWIST/TWIST <5
                                                    TURNS/METER, NOT FOR
                                                    RETAIL SALE

                   Annex 300-B                                              


            U.S.            U.S.
            Harmonized            Harmonized
            System                     Primary            System            
        Primary
            Statistical    Conversion  Unit of            Statistical   
Conversion  Unit of
            Provision  Factor   Measure        Description           
Provision  Factor   Measure        Description
            

            5403.39.0020   20.10               KG   ARTIFICIAL FILAMENT
                                                    YARN, UNTWIST/TWIST <5
                                                    TURNS/METER, NOT FOR
                                                    RETAIL SALE, NES
            5404.10.1000   20.10               KG   SYNTHETIC MONOFILAMENT
                                                    RACKET STRINGS,  67
                                                    DECITEX, CROSS-SECT.
                                                    DIMEMSION >1MM
            5404.10.2020   20.10               KG   NYLON MONFILAMENT,  67
                                                    DECITEX,
                                                    CROSS-SECTIONAL
                                                    DIMENSION >1MM,
            5404.10.2040   20.10               KG   POLYESTER MONFILAMENT,
                                                    >67 DECITEX, CROSS-
                                                    SECTIONAL DIMENSION
                                                    >1MM
            5404.10.2090   20.10               KG   SYNTHETIC MONFILAMENT
                                                     67 DECITEX, CROSS-
                                                    SECTIONAL DIMENSION
                                                    >1MM, NES
            5404.90.0000   20.10               KG   SYNTHETIC STRIP WIDTH
                                                     5MM
            5405.00.3000   20.10               KG   ARTIFICIAL
                                                    MONOFILAMENT,  67
                                                    DECITEX, CROSS-
                                                    SECTIONAL DIMENSION  
                                                    1MM
            5405.00.6000   20.10               KG   ARTIFICIAL STRIP AND
                                                    THE LIKE, WIDTH   5MM
            5407.30.1000   1.00                SM   WOVEN SYNTHETIC
                                                    FILAMENT FABRIC WITH
                                                    YARN AT ACUTE/RIGHT
                                                    ANGLES, >60% PLASTIC
            5501.10.0000   7.60                KG   NYLON/OTHER POLYAMIDE
                                                    FILAMENT TOW
            5501.20.0000   7.60                KG   POLYESTER FILAMENT TOW
            5501.30.0000   7.60                KG   ACRYLIC OR MODACRYLIC
                                                    FILAMENT TOW
            5501.90.0000   7.60                KG   SYNTHETIC FILAMENT TOW,
                                                    NES
            5502.00.0000   6.30                KG   ARTIFICIAL FILAMENT TOW

                              Annex 300-B                                   


            U.S.            U.S.
            Harmonized            Harmonized
            System                     Primary            System            
        Primary
            Statistical    Conversion  Unit of            Statistical   
Conversion  Unit of
            Provision  Factor   Measure        Description           
Provision  Factor   Measure        Description
            

            5503.10.0000   7.60                KG   NYLON/OTHER POLAMIDE
                                                    STAPLE FIBERS NOT
                                                    CARDED/COMBED OR
                                                    OTHERWISE PROCESSED
            5503.20.0000   7.60                KG   POLYESTER STAPLE FIBERS
                                                    NOT CARDED/COMBED, OR
                                                    OTHERWISE PROCESSED
            5503.30.0000   7.60                KG   ACRYLIC/MODOACRYLIC
                                                    STAPLE FIBERS, NOT
                                                    CARDED/COMBED OR
                                                    OTHERWISE PROCESSED
            5503.40.0000   7.60                KG   POLYPROPYLENE STAPLE
                                                    FIBERS NOT
                                                    CARDED/COMBED OR
                                                    OTHERWISE PROCESSED
            5503.90.0000   7.60                KG   SYNTHETIC STAPLE FIBER
                                                    NOT CARDED/COMBED, OR
                                                    OTHERWIDE PROCESSED,
                                                    NES
            5504.10.0000   6.30                KG   VISCOSE RAYON STAPLE
                                                    FIBERS NOT
                                                    CARDED/COMBED OR
                                                    OTHERWISE PROCESSED
            5504.90.0000   6.30                KG   ARTIFICIAL STAPLE
                                                    FIBERS NOT
                                                    CARDED/COMBED OR
                                                    OTHERWISE PROCESSED,
                                                    NES
            5505.10.0020   7.60                KG   WASTE, NYLON AND OTHER
                                                    POLYAMIDES
            5505.10.0040   7.60                KG   WASTE, POLYESTER
            5505.10.0060   7.60                KG   WASTE, MMF SYNTHETIC
                                                    FIBERS, NES
            5505.20.0000   6.30                KG   WASTE, MMF ARTIFICIAL
                                                    FIBERS
            5506.10.0000   7.60                KG   NYLON/OTHER POLYAMIDES
                                                    FIBERS, CARDED/COMBED
                                                    OR OTHERWISE PROCESSED 
            5506.20.0000   7.60                KG   POLYESTER STAPLE FIBER,
                                                    CARDED/COMBED, OR
                                                    OTHERWISE PROCESSED

                             Annex 300-B                                    


            U.S.            U.S.
            Harmonized            Harmonized
            System                     Primary            System            
        Primary
            Statistical    Conversion  Unit of            Statistical   
Conversion  Unit of
            Provision  Factor   Measure        Description           
Provision  Factor   Measure        Description
            

            5506.30.0000   7.60                KG   ACRYLIC/MODOACRYLIC
                                                    STAPLE FIBER,
                                                    CARDED/COMBED OR
                                                    OTHERWISE PROCESSED
            5506.90.0000   7.60                KG   SYNTHETIC STAPLE FIBER
                                                    CARDED/COMBED OR
                                                    OTHERWISE PROCESSED,
                                                    NES
            5507.00.0000   6.30                KG   ARTIFICIAL STAPLE
                                                    FIBERS, CARDED/COMBED,
                                                    OR OTHERWISE PROCESSED 
            5801.90.2010   1.00                SM   WOVEN PILE FABRIC, >85%
                                                    SILK OR SILK WASTE
            5802.20.0010   1.00                SM   TERRY TOWELING FABRIC,
                                                    >85% SILK OR SILK WASTE
            5802.30.0010   1.00                SM   TUFTED TEXTILE FABRIC,
                                                    >85% SILK OR SILK WASTE
            5803.90.4010   1.00                SM   GAUZE, >85% SILK OR
                                                    SILK WASTE
            5804.10.0010   11.10               KG   TULLES & OTHER NETTING
                                                    FABRIC, KNIT OR
                                                    CROCHETED, >85% SILK OR
                                                    SILK WASTE
            5804.29.0010   11.10               KG   LACE IN THE
                                                    PIECE/STRIP/MOTIF, >85%
                                                    SILK OR SILK WASTE
            5804.30.0010   11.10               KG   HAND-MADE LACE IN
                                                    PIECE/STRIP/MOTIF, >85%
                                                    SILK OR SILK WASTE
            5805.00.1000   1.00                SM   HAND-WOVEN TAPESTRIES
                                                    FOR WALLHANGINGS,
                                                    VALUED AT >$215\SM
            5805.00.2000   1.00                SM   HAND-WOVEN TAPESTRIES,
                                                    NES, WOOL, CERTIFIED
                                                    HAND-LOOMED
            5805.00.4090   1.00                SM   HAND-WOVEN TAPESTRIES,
                                                    NES
            5806.10.3010   11.10               KG   NARROW WOVEN PILE &
                                                    CHENILLE FABRIC, >85%
                                                    SILK OR SILK WASTE

                             Annex 300-B                                    


            U.S.            U.S.
            Harmonized            Harmonized
            System                     Primary            System            
        Primary
            Statistical    Conversion  Unit of            Statistical   
Conversion  Unit of
            Provision  Factor   Measure        Description           
Provision  Factor   Measure        Description
            

            5806.39.3010   11.10               KG   NARROW WOVEN FABRIC,
                                                    NOT PILE, >85% SILK OR
                                                    SILK WASTE 
            5806.40.0000   13.60               KG   NARROW FABRIC, WARP
                                                    WITHOUT WEFT WITH AN
                                                    ADHESIVE (BOLDUCS)
            5807.10.1090   11.10               KG   WOVEN LABELS, TEXTILE
                                                    MATERIALS, NOT
                                                    EMBROIDERED, NOT COTTON
                                                    OR MMF
            5807.10.2010   8.50                KG   WOVEN BADGES AND
                                                    SIMILAR ARTICLES,
                                                    COTTON, NOT EMBROIDERED
            5807.10.2020   14.40               KG   WOVEN BADGES/SIMILAR
                                                    ARTICLES, MMF, NOT
                                                    EMBROIDERED
            5807.10.2090   11.10               KG   WOVEN BADGES/SIMILAR
                                                    ARTCLES, TEXTILE
                                                    MATERIALS, NOT
                                                    EMBROIDERED, NOT
                                                    COTTON/MMF
            5807.90.1090   11.10               KG   NOT-WOVEN LABELS OF
                                                    TEXTILE MATERIALS, NOT
                                                    EMBROIDERED, NOT
                                                    COTTON/MMF
            5807.90.2010   8.50                KG   NOT-WOVEN
                                                    BADGES/SIMILAR
                                                    ARTICLES, COTTON, NOT
                                                    EMBROIDERED
            5807.90.2020   14.40               KG   NOT-WOVEN
                                                    BADGES/SIMILAR
                                                    ARTICLES, MMF, NOT
                                                    EMBROIDERED
            5807.90.2090   11.10               KG   NOT-WOVEN
                                                    BADGES/SIMILAR
                                                    ARTICLES, TEX
                                                    MATERIALS, NOT
                                                    EMBROIDERED, NOT
                                                    COTTON/MMF
            5808.10.2090   11.10               KG   BRAIDS IN PIECE FOR
                                                    HEADWEAR, OTHER TEXTILE

                                 Annex 300-B                                

            U.S.            U.S.
            Harmonized            Harmonized
            System                     Primary            System            
        Primary
            Statistical    Conversion  Unit of            Statistical   
Conversion  Unit of
            Provision  Factor   Measure        Description           
Provision  Factor   Measure        Description
            

                                                    MATERIALS, NES, NOT
                                                    KNIT OR EMBROIDERED
            5808.10.3090   11.10               KG   BRAID IN PIECE, NES,
                                                    NES
            5808.90.0090   11.10               KG   ORNAMENTAL TRIMMING IN
                                                    PIECE, TEXTILE
                                                    MATERIALS, NOT KNIT OR
                                                    EMBROIDERED, NOT
                                                    COTTON/MMF
            5810.92.0040   14.40               KG   EMBROIDERED
                                                    BADGES/EMBLEMS/MOTIFS
                                                    WITH VISIBLE GROUND,
                                                    MMF
            5810.99.0090   11.10               KG   EMBROIDERY
                                                    PIECES/STRIPS/MOTIFS
                                                    WITH VISIBLE GROUND,
                                                    TEXTILE MATERIALS, NES 
            5811.00.4000   1.00                SM   QUILTED PIECES, 1 
                                                    LAYER TEXTILE
                                                    MATERIALS, TEXTILE
                                                    MATERIALS, NES
            6001.99.0010   1.00                SM   KNIT OR CROCHETED PILE
                                                    FABRIC  85% SILK OR
                                                    SILK WASTE
            6002.99.0010   11.10               KG   KNIT OR CROCHETED
                                                    FABRIC, NES  85% SILK
                                                    OR SILK WASTE
            6301.90.0020   11.10               NO   BLANKET/TRAVELING RUGS,
                                                    >85% SILK OR SILK WASTE
            6302.29.0010   11.10               NO   BED LINEN, PRINTED >85%
                                                    SILK OR SILK WASTE
            6302.39.0020   11.10               NO   BED LINEN, NES, >85%
                                                    SILK OR SILK WASTE
            6302.99.1000   11.10               NO   LINEN, NES, >85% SILK
                                                    OR SILK WASTE
            6303.99.0030   11.10               NO   CURTAINS, INTERIOR
                                                    BLINDS, NOT KNIT OR
                                                    CROCHETED, >85% SILK OR
                                                    SILK WASTE

                              Annex 300-B                                   

            U.S.            U.S.
            Harmonized            Harmonized
            System                     Primary            System            
        Primary
            Statistical    Conversion  Unit of            Statistical   
Conversion  Unit of
            Provision  Factor   Measure        Description           
Provision  Factor   Measure        Description
            

            6304.19.3030   11.10               NO   BEDSPREADS, NOT KNIT OR
                                                    CROCHETED, >85% SILK OR
                                                    SILK WASTE
            6304.91.0060   11.10               NO   FURNISHING ARTICLES,
                                                    NES, KNIT OR CROCHETED
                                                    >85% SILK OR SILK WASTE
            6304.99.1000   1.00                SM   WALL HANGINGS, WOOL OR
                                                    FINE ANIMAL HAIR,
                                                    CERTIFIED HAND-
                                                    LOOMED/FOLKLORE, NOT
                                                    KNIT
            6304.99.2500   11.10               KG   WALL HANGINGS, JUTE,
                                                    NOT KNIT
            6304.99.4000   3.70                KG   PILLOW COVERS, WOOL OR
                                                    FINE ANIMAL HAIR,
                                                    CERTIFIED HAND-
                                                    LOOMED/FOLKLORE
            6304.99.6030   11.10               KG   OTHER FURNISHING
                                                    ARTICLES, NOT KNIT, NES
                                                    >85% SILK OR SILK WASTE
            6305.10.0000   11.10               KG   SACKS & BAGS, JUTE/BAST
                                                    FIBERS
            6306.21.0000   8.50                KG   TENTS OF COTTON 
            6306.22.1000   14.40               NO   BACKPACK TENTS,
                                                    SYNTHETIC FIBERS
            6306.22.9010   14.40               KG   SCREEN HOUSES,
                                                    SYNTHETIC FIBERS
            6306.29.0000   14.40               KG   TENTS, TEXTILE
                                                    MATERIALS NES
            6306.31.0000   14.40               KG   SAILS, SYNTHETIC FIBERS
            6306.39.0000   8.50                KG   SAILS, TEXTILE
                                                    MATERIALS NES
            6306.41.0000   8.50                KG   PNEUMATIC MATTRESSES,
                                                    COTTON
            6306.49.0000   14.40               KG   PNEUMATIC MATTRESSES,
                                                    TEXTILE MATERIALS NES
            6306.91.0000   8.50                KG   CAMPING GOODS NES,
                                                    COTTON
            6306.99.0000   14.40               KG   CAMPING GOODS, TEXTILE
                                                    MATERIALS NES
            6307.10.2030   8.50                KG   CLEANING CLOTHS NES

                              Annex 300-B                                   

            U.S.            U.S.
            Harmonized            Harmonized
            System                     Primary            System            
        Primary
            Statistical    Conversion  Unit of            Statistical   
Conversion  Unit of
            Provision  Factor   Measure        Description           
Provision  Factor   Measure        Description
            

            6307.20.0000   11.40               KG   LIFEJACKETS AND
                                                    LIFEBELTS
            6307.90.6010   8.50                KG   PERINEAL TOWELS, FABRIC
                                                    WITH PAPER BASE
            6307.90.6090   8.50                KG   OTHER SURGICAL DRAPES,
                                                    FABRIC WITH PAPER BASE
            6307.90.7010   14.40               KG   SURGICAL DRAPES,
                                                    DISPOSAL & NONWOVEN MMF
            6307.90.7020   8.50                KG   SURGICAL DRAPES NES
            6307.90.7500   8.50                NO   TOYS FOR PETS, TEXTILE
                                                    MATERIALS
            6307.90.8500   8.50                KG   WALL BANNERS, MANMADE
                                                    FIBERS
            6307.90.9425   14.50               NO   NATIONAL FLAGS OF THE
                                                    UNITED STATES
            6307.90.9435   14.50               NO   NATIONAL FLAGS OF
                                                    NATIONS OTHER THAN THE
                                                    UNITED STATES
            6307.90.9490   14.50               KG   OTHER MADE-UP ARTICLES
                                                    NES
            6309.00.0010   8.50                KG   WORN CLOTHING & OTHER
                                                    WORN ARTICLES
            6309.00.0020   8.50                KG   WORN CLOTHING & OTHER
                                                    WORN ARTICLES, NES
            6310.10.1000   3.70                KG   RAGS/SCRAP/TWINE/CORDAG
                                                    E/ROPE/CABLES, SORTED,
                                                    WOOL OR FINE ANIMAL
                                                    HAIR
            6310.10.2010   8.50                KG   RAGS/SCRAP/TWINE/CORDAG
                                                    E/ROPE/CABLES, SORTED,
                                                    COTTON
            6310.10.2020   14.40               KG   RAGS/SCRAP/TWINE/CORDAG
                                                    E/ROPE/CABLES, SORTED,
                                                    MMF
            6310.10.2030   11.10               KG   RAGS/SCRAP/TWINE/CORDAG
                                                    E/ROPE/CABLES, SORTED,
                                                    NOT COTTON/MMF
            6310.90.1000   3.70                KG   RAGS/SCRAP/TWINE/CORDAG
                                                    E/ROPE/CABLES, NOT
                                                    SORTED, WOOL OR FINE
                                                    ANIMAL HAIR

                              Annex 300-B                                   

            U.S.            U.S.
            Harmonized            Harmonized
            System                     Primary            System            
        Primary
            Statistical    Conversion  Unit of            Statistical   
Conversion  Unit of
            Provision  Factor   Measure        Description           
Provision  Factor   Measure        Description
            

            6310.90.2000   8.50                KG   RAGS/SCRAP/TWINE/CORDAG
                                                    E/ROPE/CABLES, NOT
                                                    SORTED, NOT WOOL
            6501.00.30 4.4             DZ      HAT FORMS/BODIES, NOT
                                               BLOCKED, NO BRIMS, FUR,
                                               MEN'S AND BOYS'
            6501.00.60 4.4             DZ      HAT FORMS/BODIES, NOT
                                               BLOCKED, NO BRIMS, FUR,
                                               WOMEN'S AND GIRLS'
            6502.00.20 18.7            DZ      HAT SHAPES, ASSEMBLED FROM
                                               STRIPS, VEGETABLE FIBER,
                                               SEWED
            6502.00.40 18.7            DZ      HAT SHAPES, PLAITED OR
                                               ASSEMBLED FROM STRIPS,
                                               VEGETABLE FIBER, NOT-SEWED,
                                               NOT BLEACHED/COLORED
            6502.00.60 18.7            DZ      HAT SHAPES, PLAITED OR
                                               ASSEMBLED FROM STRIPS,
                                               VEGETABLE FIBER, NOT-SEWED,
                                               BLEACHED/COLORED
            6503.00.30 5.8             DZ      FELT HATS AND OTHER
                                               HEADGEAR, MEN'S AND BOYS'
            6503.00.60 5.8             DZ      FELT HATS AND OTHER
                                               HEADGEAR, NES
            6504.00.30 7.5             DZ      HATS AND OTHER HEADGEAR,
                                               ASSEMBLED FROM STRIPS,
                                               VEGETABLE FIBER, SEWED
            6504.00.60 7.5             DZ      HATS AND OTHER HEADGEAR,
                                               ASSEMBLED FROM STRIPS
            6601.10.00 17.9            DZ      GARDEN OR SIMILAR UMBRELLAS
            6601.91.00 17.8            DZ      OTHER UMBRELLAS, TELESCOPIC
                                               SHAFT
            6601.99.00 11.2            DZ      OTHER UMBRELLAS, NES
            8708.21.00 2.72            KG      SAFETY SEAT BELTS

            5.   (a)   The primary unit of measure for the following
                       tariff items in U.S. category 666 shall be NO and
                       shall be converted into SME by a factor of 5.5:

            6301.10.0000   ELECTRIC BLANKETS
            6301.40.0010   BLANKETS (NOT ELECTRIC) & TRAVEL RUGS OF
                           SYNTHETIC FIBER, WOVEN
            6301.40.0020   BLANKETS (NOT ELECTRIC) & TRAVEL RUGS OF
                           SYNTHETIC FIBER, NES

                        Annex 300-B                                         

            6301.90.0010   BLANKETS AND TRAVELING RUGS OF ARTIFICIAL FIBER
            6302.10.0020   BED LINEN, KNITTED OR CROCHETED FABRIC,
                           EXCLUDING COTTON
            6302.22.1030   SHEETS WITH TRIM, NAPPED, PRINTED, MANMADE FIBER
            6302.22.1040   SHEETS WITH TRIM, NOT NAPPED, PRINTED, MANMADE
                           FIBER 
            6302.22.1050   BOLSTER CASES WITH TRIM, PRINTED, MANMADE FIBER 
            6302.22.1060   BED LINEN WITH TRIM, PRINTED, MANMADE FIBER, NES

            6302.22.2020   SHEETS, NOT TRIMMED, PRINTED, MANMADE FIBER
            6302.22.2030   BED LINEN, NOT TRIMMED, PRINTED, MANMADE FIBER,
                           NES
            6302.32.1030   SHEETS WITH TRIM, NAPPED, MANMADE FIBER
            6302.32.1040   SHEETS WITH TRIM, NOT NAPPED, MANMADE FIBER
            6302.32.1050   BOLSTER CASES WITH TRIM, MANMADE FIBER 
            6302.32.1060   BED LINEN WITH TRIM, MANMADE FIBER, NES
            6302.32.2030   SHEETS, NOT TRIMMED, NAPPED, MANMADE FIBER 
            6302.32.2040   SHEETS NOT TRIMMED, NOT NAPPED, MANMADE FIBER
            6302.32.2050   BOLSTER CASES, NOT TRIMMED, MANMADE FIBER 
            6302.32.2060   BED LINEN NES, MANMADE FIBER
            6304.11.2000   BEDSPREADS, KNIT/CROCHETED, MANMADE FIBER
            6304.19.1500   BEDSPREADS WITH TRIM, MANMADE FIBER, NES
            6304.19.2000   BEDSPREADS, MANMADE FIBER, NES

                 (b)   The primary unit of measure for the following
                       tariff items in U.S. category 666 shall be NO and
                       shall be converted into SME by a factor of 0.9:

            6302.22.1010   PILLOWCASES WITH TRIM, PRINTED, NAPPED, MANMADE
            FIBER 
            6302.22.1020   PILLOWCASES WITH TRIM, PRINTED, NOT NAPPED,
                           MANMADE FIBER
            6302.22.2010   PILLOWCASES, NOT TRIMMED, PRINTED, MANMADE FIBER

            6302.32.1010   PILLOWCASES WITH TRIM, NAPPED, MANMADE FIBER 
            6302.32.1020   PILLOWCASES WITH TRIM, NOT NAPPED, MANMADE FIBER
            6302.32.2010   PILLOWCASES, NOT TRIMMED, NAPPED, MANMADE FIBER
            6302.32.2020   PILLOWCASES NOT TRIMMED, NOT NAPPED, MANMADE
                           FIBER

            6.   The primary unit of measure for garment parts of
            subheadings 6117.90 and 6217.90 shall be KG and shall be
            converted into SME by applying the following factors:

            Cotton apparel                           8.50
            Wool apparel                             3.70
            Man-made fiber apparel                  14.40
            Other non-cotton vegetable fiber apparel     12.50

                              Annex 300-B                                   

            7.   For the purposes of this Schedule:

                       DPR means dozen pair;
                       DZ means dozen;
                       KG means kilogram;
                       NO means number; and
                       SM means square meter.


                                      Appendix 5.1

                              Bilateral Emergency Actions
                              (Quantitative Restrictions)


                 As between Canada and the United States, actions otherwise
            permitted under Section 5 shall be governed by Article 407 of
            the Canada - United States Free Trade Agreement, which is
            hereby incorporated into and made a part of this Agreement
            solely for that purpose.



                                       Appendix 6

                                   Special Provisions


            A.  Rules Applicable to Certain Carpets and Sweaters

                 For purposes of trade between Mexico and the United
            States, a good of either Party of HS Chapter 57, subheading
            6110.30, 6103.23 or 6104.23 shall be treated as if it were an
            originating good only if any of the following changes in tariff
            classification is satisfied within the territory of one or more
            of the Parties:

                 (a)   a change to subheading 5703.20 or 5703.30 or
                       heading 57.04 from any heading outside Chapter 57
                       other than headings 51.06 through 51.13, 52.04
                       through 52.12, 53.08, 53.11 or any headings of
                       Chapter 54 or 55; or a change to any other heading
                       or subheading of Chapter 57 from any heading
                       outside that chapter other than headings 51.06
                       through 51.13, 52.04 through 52.12, 53.08, 53.11,
                       any heading of Chapter 54 or 55.08 through 55.16;
                       and

                                 Annex 300-B                                

                 (b)   a change to U.S. tariff item 6110.30.10.10,
                       6110.30.10.20, 6110.30.15.10, 6110.30.15.20,
                       6110.30.20.10, 6110.30.20.20, 6110.30.30.10,
                       6110.30.30.15, 6110.30.30.20, or 6110.30.30.25 or
                       Mexican tariff item 6110.30.01, or a good of those
                       tariff items that is classified as part of an
                       ensemble in subheading 6103.23 or 6104.23, from any
                       heading outside Chapter 61 other than headings
                       51.06 through 51.13, 52.04 through 52.12, 53.07
                       through 53.08, 53.10 through 53.11, any heading of
                       Chapter 54 or 55, 60.01 or 60.02, provided that the
                       good is both cut (or knit to shape) and sewn or
                       otherwise assembled in the territory of one or more
                       of the Parties; or a change to any other tariff
                       item of subheading 6110.30 from any heading outside
                       Chapter 61 other than headings 51.06 through 51.13,
                       52.04 through 52.12, 53.07 through 53.08, 53.10
                       through 53.11, any heading of Chapter 54, 55.08
                       through 55.16, 60.01 or 60.02, provided, that the
                       good is both cut (or knit to shape) and sewn or
                       otherwise assembled in the territory of one or more
                       of the Parties.  


            B.  Preferential Tariff Treatment for Non-Originating Goods of
            Another Party

            Apparel and Made-Up Goods

            1.   (a)   Each Party shall apply the rate of duty applicable
                       to originating goods set out in its Schedule to
                       Annex 302.2, and in accordance with Appendix 2.1,
                       up to the annual quantities specified in Schedule
                       6.B.1, in SME, to apparel goods provided for in
                       Chapters 61 and 62 that are both cut (or knit to
                       shape) and sewn or otherwise assembled in the
                       territory of a Party from fabric or yarn produced
                       or obtained outside the free trade area, and that
                       meet other applicable conditions for preferred
                       tariff treatment under this Agreement.  The SME
                       shall be determined in accordance with the
                       conversion factors set out in Schedule 3.1.3.

                 (b)   The annual tariff preference levels (TPLs) of
                       imports from Canada into the United States shall be
                       adjusted annually for five consecutive years
                       commencing on January 1, 1995, by the following
                       growth factors:

                                  Annex 300-B                               

                       (i)      for cotton or man-made fiber apparel, 2
                                percent,

                       (ii)     for cotton or man-made fiber apparel made
                                from fabrics woven or knit in a non-Party,
                                1 percent, and 

                       (iii)    for wool apparel, 1 percent.

            2.   The United States shall apply the rate of duty applicable
            to originating goods set out in its Schedule to Annex 302.2,
            and in accordance with Appendix 2.1, up to the annual quantity
            specified in Schedule 6.B.1, to textile or apparel goods
            provided for in Chapters 61, 62 and 63 that are sewn or
            otherwise assembled in Mexico as provided for in U.S. tariff
            item 9802.00.80.60 from fabric which is knit or woven outside
            the territory of the United States or Mexico, when exported to
            the United States.  This paragraph shall not apply after
            quantitative restrictions established pursuant to the
            Multifiber Arrangement or any successor agreement are
            terminated.

            Exceptions

            3.   As between Mexico and the United States:

                 (a)   apparel goods provided for in Chapters 61 and 62 of
                       the HS, in which the fabric that determines the
                       tariff classification of the good is classified in
                       one of the following tariff provisions, are
                       ineligible for preferential tariff treatment
                       provided for under the levels established in
                       Schedule 6.B.1

                       (i)      blue denim: subheadings 5209.42 and
                                5211.42, U.S. tariff items 5212.24.60.20,
                                and 5514.32.00.10 or Mexican tariff items
                                5212.24.xx and 5514.32.xx; and

                       (ii)     fabric woven as plain weave where two or
                                more warp ends are woven as one (oxford
                                cloth) of average yarn number less than 135
                                metric number: 5208.19, 5208.29, 5208.39,
                                5208.49, 5208.59, 5210.19, 5210.29,
                                5210.39, 5210.49, 5210.59, 5512.11,
                                5512.19, 5513.13, 5513.23, 5513.33, and
                                5513.43;
             
                               Annex 300-B                                  

                 (b)   apparel goods provided for in U.S. tariff items
                       6107.11.00, 6107.12.00, 6109.10.00 and 6109.90.00
                       or Mexican tariff items 6107.11.01, 6107.12.01,
                       6109.10.01 and 6109.90.01 are ineligible for
                       preferential tariff treatment provided for under
                       the levels established in Schedule 6.B.1 if they
                       are composed chiefly of circular knit fabric of
                       yarn number equal to or less than 100 metric
                       number.  Apparel goods provided for in subheadings
                       6108.21 and 6108.22 are ineligible for preferential
                       tariff treatment provided for under the levels
                       established in parts 2(a), 2(b), 3(a) and 3(b) in
                       Schedule 6.B.1 if they are composed chiefly of
                       circular knit fabric of yarn number equal to or
                       less than 100 metric number; and

                 (c)   apparel goods provided for in U.S. tariff items
                       6110.30.10.10, 6110.30.10.20, 6110.30.15.10,
                       6110.30.15.20, 6110.30.20.10, 6110.30.20.20,
                       6110.30.30.10, 6110.30.30.15, 6110.30.30.20,
                       6110.30.30.25 and items of those tariff items that
                       are classified as parts of ensembles in U.S. tariff
                       items 6103.23.00.30, 6103.23.00.70, 6104.23.00.22
                       and 6104.23.00.40 or Mexican tariff item 6110.30.01
                       or goods of that tariff item that are classified as
                       parts of ensembles in subheading 6103.23 or 6104.23
                       are ineligible for preferential tariff treatment
                       provided for under the levels established in
                       Schedule 6.B.1.

            Fabric and Made-Up Goods

            4.   (a)   Each Party shall apply the rate of duty applicable
                       to originating goods set out in its Schedule to
                       Annex 302.2, and in accordance with Appendix 2.1,
                       up to the annual quantities specified in Schedule
                       6.B.2, in SME, to cotton or man-made fiber fabric
                       and cotton or man-made fiber made-up textile goods
                       provided for in Chapters 52 through 55, 58, 60, and
                       63 that are woven or knit in a Party from yarn
                       produced or obtained outside the free trade area,
                       or knit in a Party from yarn spun in a Party from
                       fiber produced or obtained outside the free trade
                       area, and to goods of subheading 9404.90 that are
                       finished and cut and sewn or otherwise assembled
                       from fabrics of subheadings 5208.11 through
                       5208.29, 5209.11 through 5209.29, 5210.11 through
                       5210.29, 5211.11 through 5211.29, 5212.11, 5212.12,

                                    Annex 300-B                             

                       5212.21, 5212.22, 5407.41, 5407.51, 5407.71,
                       5407.81, 5407.91, 5408.21, 5408.31, 5512.11,
                       5512.21, 5512.91, 5513.11 through 5513.19, 5514.11
                       through 5514.19, 5516.11, 5516.21, 5516.31,
                       5516.41, 5516.91 produced or obtained outside the
                       free trade area, and that meet other applicable
                       conditions for preferred tariff treatment under
                       this Agreement.  The SME shall be determined in
                       accordance with the conversion factors set out in
                       Schedule 3.1.3.

                 (b)   The annual TPL and sub-levels on imports from
                       Canada into the United States shall be adjusted by
                       an annual growth factor of two percent for five
                       consecutive years commencing on January 1, 1995.

            5.   For purposes of paragraph 4, the number of SME that will
            be counted against the TPLs applied as between Canada and the
            United States shall be:

                 (a)   for textile goods that are not originating because
                       certain non-originating textile materials do not
                       undergo the applicable change in tariff
                       classification set out in Annex 401 for that good,
                       but where such materials are 50 percent or less by
                       weight of the materials of that good, only 50
                       percent of the SME for that good, determined in
                       accordance with the conversion factors set out in
                       Schedule 3.1.3; and 

                 (b)   for textile goods that are not originating because
                       certain non-originating textile materials do not
                       undergo the applicable change in tariff
                       classification set out in Annex 401 for that good,
                       but where such materials are more than 50 percent
                       by weight of the materials of that good, 100
                       percent of the SME for that good, determined in
                       accordance with the conversion factors set out in
                       Schedule 3.1.3.

            Spun Yarn

            6.   (a)   Each Party shall apply the rate of duty applicable
                       to originating goods set out in its Schedule to
                       Annex 302.2, and in accordance with Appendix 2.1,
                       up to the annual quantities specified in Schedule
                       6.B.3, in kilograms (kg), to cotton or man-made
                       fiber yarns provided for in headings 52.05 through

                                  Annex 300-B                               

                       52.07 or 55.09 through 55.11 that are spun in a
                       Party from fiber of headings 52.01 through 52.03 or
                       55.01 through 55.07, produced or obtained outside
                       the free trade area and that meet other applicable
                       conditions for preferred tariff treatment under
                       this Agreement.

                 (b)   The annual TPL on imports from Canada into the
                       United States shall be adjusted by an annual growth
                       factor of two percent for five consecutive years
                       commencing on January 1, 1995. 

            7.   Textile or apparel goods that enter the territory of a
            Party under paragraph 1, 2, 4 or 6 shall not be considered to
            be originating goods.

            Review and Consultations

            8.   (a)   Trade in the goods referred to in paragraphs 1, 2,
                       4 and 6 shall be monitored by the Parties.  On
                       request of any Party wishing to adjust any annual
                       TPL for imports into Canada from Mexico or the
                       United States, imports into Mexico from Canada or
                       the United States, or imports into the United
                       States from Mexico, based on the ability to obtain
                       supplies of particular fibers, yarns and fabrics,
                       as appropriate, that can be used to produce
                       originating goods, the Parties shall consult with a
                       view to adjusting such level.  Any adjustment in
                       the TPL requires the mutual consent of the Parties
                       concerned.

                 (b)   Canada and the United States shall decide, in the
                       review referred to in Section 7(3), whether to
                       continue to apply annual growth factors to the
                       specified TPLs after the five consecutive years. 
                       If a growth factor for a TPL is not continued as a
                       result of the review, subparagraph (a) shall also
                       apply to imports from Canada into the United States
                       of goods covered by the TPL.

                                 Annex 300-B                                

                                     Schedule 6.B.1

                   Preferential Tariff Treatment for Non-Originating
                               Apparel and Made-Up Goods



             1. Imports into Canada:         from Mexico       from United
                                                            States
             (a) Cotton or Man-made         6,000,000 SME
             fiber apparel                                    9,000,000 SME
                                             250,000 SME
             (b) Wool apparel                                  919,740 SME
             2. Imports into Mexico:         from Canada       from United
                                                            States
             (a) Cotton or Man-made         6,000,000 SME
             fiber apparel                                   12,000,000 SME
                                             250,000 SME
             (b) Wool apparel                                 1,000,000 SME


             3. Imports into United          from Canada       from Mexico
             States:
                                           80,000,000 SME1   45,000,000 SME
             (a) Cotton or Man-made
             fiber apparel                  5,066,948 SME2    1,500,000 SME

             (b) Wool apparel
                                                 n/a         25,000,000 SME
             (c) Goods imported under
             U.S. tariff item
             9802.00.80.60

            ____________________________

                 1  Of the 80,000,000 SME annual quantity of cotton or man-
            made fiber apparel imports from Canada into the United States,
            no more than 60,000,000 SME shall be made from fabrics which
            are knit or woven in a non-Party.

                 2  Of the 5,066,948 SME annual quantity of wool apparel
            imports from Canada into the United States, no more than
            5,016,780 SME shall be men's or boys' wool suits of U.S.
            category 443.

                                 Annex 300-B                                


                                     Schedule 6.B.2

                   Preferential Tariff Treatment for Non-Originating
                   Cotton or Man-made Fiber Fabrics and Made-Up Goods



             Imports into Canada        from Mexico      from United States

                                       7,000,000 SME       2,000,000 SME1
             Imports into Mexico        from Canada      from United States

                                       7,000,000 SME        2,000,000 SME

             Imports into United        from Canada          from Mexico
             States
                                      65,000,000 SME2      24,000,000 SME3





            ____________________________

                 1  The 2,000,000 SME annual quantity of imports from the
            United States into Canada shall be limited to goods of chapter
            60 of the HS.

                 2  Of the 65,000,000 SME annual quantity of imports from
            Canada into the United States, no more than 35,000,000 SME may
            be in goods of chapters 52 through 55, 58 and 63 (other than
            subheading 6302.10, 6302.40, 6303.11, 6303.12, 6303.19, 6304.11
            or 6304.91) of the HS; and no more than 35,000,000 SME may be
            in goods of chapter 60 and subheading 6302.10, 6302.40,
            6303.11, 6303.12, 6303.19, 6304.11 or 6304.91 of the HS.

                 3  Of the 24,000,000 SME annual quantity of imports from
            Mexico into the United States, no more than 18,000,000 SME may
            be in goods of chapter 60 and subheading 6302.10, 6302.40,
            6303.11, 6303.12, 6303.19, 6304.11 or 6304.91 of the HS; and no
            more than 6,000,000 SME may be in goods of chapters 52 through
            55, 58 and 63 (other than subheading 6302.10, 6302.40, 6303.11,
            6303.12, 6303.19, 6304.11 or 6304.91) of the HS.

                             Annex 300-B                                    

                                     Schedule 6.B.3

                   Preferential Tariff Treatment for Non-Originating
                           Cotton or Man-made Fiber Spun Yarn



             Imports into Canada        from Mexico      from United States

                                       1,000,000 kg         1,000,000 kg
             Imports into Mexico        from Canada      from United States

                                       1,000,000 kg         1,000,000 kg

             Imports into United        from Canada          from Mexico
             States
                                       10,700,000 kg        1,000,000 kg

                                   Annex 300-B                              

                                   Appendix 10.1

                              Country-Specific Definitions


            Definitions Specific to Canada

            general import statistics means statistics issued by Statistics
            Canada or, where available, import permit data provided by the
            Export and Import Permits Bureau of the Department of External
            Affairs and International Trade, or their successors.


            Definitions Specific to Mexico

            general import statistics means the statistics of the "Sistema
            de Informacion Comercial" (Trade Information System) or its
            successor.


            Definitions Specific to the United States

            category means a grouping of textile or apparel goods defined
            in the Correlation: Textile and Apparel Categories with the
            Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States, 1992 (or
            successor publication), published by the United States
            Department of Commerce, International Trade Administration,
            Office of Textiles and Apparel, Trade and Data Division,
            Washington, D.C.; and

            general import statistics means statistics of the U.S. Bureau
            of the Census or its successor.

Title:Rules of Origin -- Chapter Four
Author: White House
Document-Date: 29 Sept 1993
Content-Type: text/plain; CHARSET=US-ASCII
Content-Length:70725

                                      Chapter Four 
 
                                    Rules of Origin 
 
 
            Article 401:   Originating Goods 
 
                 Except as otherwise provided in this Chapter, a good shall 
            originate in the territory of a Party where: 
 
                 (a)  the good is wholly obtained or produced entirely in 
                      the territory of one or more of the Parties, as 
                      defined in Article 415; 
 
                 (b)  each of the non-originating materials used in the 
                      production of the good undergoes an applicable change 
                      in tariff classification set out in Annex 401 as a 
                      result of production occurring entirely in the 
                      territory of one or more of the Parties, or the good 
                      otherwise satisfies the applicable requirements of 
                      that Annex where no change in tariff classification 
                      is required, and the good satisfies all other 
                      applicable requirements of this Chapter; 
 
                 (c)  the good is produced entirely in the territory of one 
                      or more of the Parties exclusively from originating 
                      materials; or 
 
                 (d)  except for a good provided for in Chapters 61 through 
                      63 of the Harmonized System, the good is produced 
                      entirely in the territory of one or more of the 
                      Parties but one or more of the non-originating 
                      materials provided for as parts under the Harmonized 
                      System that are used in the production of the good 
                      does not undergo a change in tariff classification 
                      because 
 
                      (i)  the good was imported into the territory of a 
                           Party in an unassembled or a disassembled form 
                           but was classified as an assembled good pursuant 
                           to General Rule of Interpretation 2(a) of the 
                           Harmonized System, or  
 
                      (ii) the heading for the good provides for and 
                           specifically describes both the good itself and 
                           its parts and is not further subdivided into 
                           subheadings, or the subheading for the good 
                           provides for and specifically describes both the 
                           good itself and its parts, 
 
                      provided that the regional value content of the good, 
                      determined in accordance with Article 402, is not 
                      less than 60 percent where the transaction value 
                      method is used, or is not less than 50 percent where 
                      the net cost method is used, and that the good 
                      satisfies all other applicable requirements of this 
                      Chapter. 
 
 
            Article 402:   Regional Value Content 
 
            1.   Except as provided in paragraph 5, each Party shall 
            provide that the regional value content of a good shall be 
            calculated, at the choice of the exporter or producer of the 
            good, on the basis of either the transaction value method set 
            out in paragraph 2 or the net cost method set out in paragraph 
            3. 
 
            2.   Each Party shall provide that an exporter or producer may 
            calculate the regional value content of a good on the basis of 
            the following transaction value method: 
 
                                          TV - VNM 
                           RVC       =         -------------- x 100 
                                             TV 
 
                 where 
 
                           RVC       is the regional value content, 
                                     expressed as a percentage; 
 
                           TV        is the transaction value of the good 
                                     adjusted to a F.O.B. basis; and 
 
                           VNM  is the value of non-originating materials 
                                used by the producer in the production of 
                                the good.  
 
            3.   Each Party shall provide that an exporter or producer may 
            calculate the regional value content of a good on the basis of 
            the following net cost method: 
 
 
                                          NC - VNM 
                           RVC       =    -------------- x 100   
                                             NC 
 
                 where 
 
                           RVC       is the regional value content, 
                                     expressed as a percentage; 
 
                           NC        is the net cost of the good; and 
 
                           VNM       is the value of non-originating 
                                     materials used by the producer in the 
                                     production of the good. 
 
            4.   Except as provided in Article 403(1) and (2)(a)(i), the 
            value of non-originating materials used by the producer in the 
            production of a good shall not, for purposes of calculating the 
            regional value content of the good under paragraph 2 or 3, 
            include the value of non-originating materials used to produce 
            originating materials that are subsequently used in the 
            production of the good. 
 
            5.   Each Party shall provide that an exporter or producer 
            shall calculate the regional value content of a good solely on 
            the basis of the net cost method set out in paragraph 3 where:  
 
                 (a)  there is no transaction value for the good;  
 
                 (b)  the transaction value of the good is unacceptable 
                      under Article 1 of the Customs Valuation Code; 
 
                 (c)  the good is sold by the producer to a related person 
                      and the volume, by units of quantity, of sales of 
                      identical or similar goods to related persons during 
                      the six-month period immediately preceding the month 
                      in which the good is sold exceeds 85 percent of the 
                      producer's total sales of such goods during that 
                      period; 
 
                 (d)  the good is 
 
                      (i)  a motor vehicle provided for in heading 87.01 or 
                           87.02, subheading 8703.21 through 8703.90, or 
                           heading 87.04, 87.05 or 87.06, 
 
                      (ii) identified in Annex 403.1 or 403.2 and is for 
                           use in a motor vehicle provided for in heading 
                           87.01 or 87.02, subheading 8703.21 through 
                           8703.90, or heading 87.04, 87.05 or 87.06, 
 
                      (iii)     provided for in subheading 6401.10 through 
                                6406.10, or  
 
                      (iv) provided for in tariff item 8469.10.aa (word 
                           processing machines);  
 
                 (e)  the exporter or producer chooses to accumulate the 
                      regional value content of the good in accordance with 
                      Article 404; or 
   
                 (f)  the good is designated as an intermediate material 
                      under paragraph 10 and is subject to a regional 
                      value-content requirement. 
 
            6.   If an exporter or producer of a good calculates the 
            regional value content of the good on the basis of the 
            transaction value method set out in paragraph 2 and a Party 
            subsequently notifies the exporter or producer, during the 
            course of a verification pursuant to Chapter Five (Customs 
            Procedures), that the transaction value of the good, or the 
            value of any material used in the production of the good, is 
            required to be adjusted or is unacceptable under Article 1 of 
            the Customs Valuation Code, the exporter or producer may then 
            also calculate the regional value content of the good on the 
            basis of the net cost method set out in paragraph 3. 
 
            7.   Nothing in paragraph 6 shall be construed to prevent any 
            review or appeal available under Article 510 (Review and 
            Appeal) of an adjustment to or a rejection of: 
 
                 (a)  the transaction value of a good; or 
 
                 (b)  the value of any material used in the production of a 
                      good. 
 
            8.   For purposes of calculating the net cost of a good under 
            paragraph 3, the producer of the good may: 
 
                 (a)  calculate the total cost incurred with respect to all 
                      goods produced by that producer, subtract any sales 
                      promotion, marketing and after-sales service costs, 
                      royalties, shipping and packing costs, and non- 
                      allowable interest costs that are included in the 
                      total cost of all such goods, and then reasonably 
                      allocate the resulting net cost of those goods to the 
                      good,  
 
                 (b)  calculate the total cost incurred with respect to all 
                      goods produced by that producer, reasonably allocate 
                      the total cost to the good, and then subtract any 
                      sales promotion, marketing and after-sales service 
                      costs, royalties, shipping and packing costs and non- 
                      allowable interest costs that are included in the 
                      portion of the total cost allocated to the good, or 
 
                 (c)  reasonably allocate each cost that forms part of the 
                      total cost incurred with respect to the good so that 
                      the aggregate of these costs does not include any 
                      sales promotion, marketing and after-sales service 
                      costs, royalties, shipping and packing costs, and 
                      non-allowable interest costs,  
 
            provided that the allocation of all such costs is consistent 
            with the provisions regarding the reasonable allocation of 
            costs set out in the Uniform Regulations, established under 
            Article 511 (Customs Procedures - Uniform Regulations). 
 
            9.   Except as provided in paragraph 11, the value of a 
            material used in the production of a good shall: 
 
                 (a)  be the transaction value of the material determined 
                      in accordance with Article 1 of the Customs Valuation 
                      Code; or 
 
                 (b)  in the event that there is no transaction value or 
                      the transaction value of the material is unacceptable 
                      under Article 1 of the Customs Valuation Code, be 
                      determined in accordance with Articles 2 through 7 of 
                      the Customs Valuation Code; and 
 
                 (c)  where not included under subparagraph (a) or (b), 
                      include  
 
                      (i)  freight, insurance, packing and all other costs 
                           incurred in transporting the material to the 
                           location of the producer,  
 
                      (ii) duties, taxes and customs brokerage fees on the 
                           material paid in the territory of one or more of 
                           the Parties, and 
 
                      (iii)     the cost of waste and spoilage resulting 
                                from the use of the material in the 
                                production of the good, less the value of 
                                renewable scrap or by-product. 
 
            10.  Except as provided in Article 403(1) and for a component 
            identified in Annex 403.2, the producer of a good may, for 
            purposes of calculating the regional value content of the good 
            under paragraph 2 or 3, designate any self-produced material 
            used in the production of the good as an intermediate material, 
            provided that where the intermediate material is subject to a 
            regional value-content requirement, no other self-produced 
            material subject to a regional value-content requirement used 
            in the production of that intermediate material may itself be 
            designated by the producer as an intermediate material. 
 
            11.  The value of an intermediate material shall be: 
 
                 (a)  the total cost incurred with respect to all goods 
                      produced by the producer of the good that can be 
                      reasonably allocated to that intermediate material; 
                      or 
 
                 (b)  the aggregate of each cost that forms part of the 
                      total cost incurred with respect to that intermediate 
                      material that can be reasonably allocated to that 
                      intermediate material. 
 
            12.  The value of an indirect material shall be based on the 
            Generally Accepted Accounting Principles applicable in the 
            territory of the Party in which the good is produced. 
 
 
            Article 403:   Automotive Goods 
 
            1.   For purposes of calculating the regional value content 
            under the net cost method set out in Article 402(3) for: 
 
                 (a)  a good that is a motor vehicle provided for in tariff 
                      item 8702.10.bb or 8702.90.bb (vehicles for the 
                      transport of 15 or fewer persons), or subheading 
                      8703.21 through 8703.90, 8704.21 or 8704.31, or 
 
                 (b)  a good provided for in the tariff provisions listed 
                      in Annex 403.1 where the good is subject to a 
                      regional value-content requirement and is for use as 
                      original equipment in the production of a good 
                      provided for in tariff item 8702.10.bb or 8702.90.bb 
                      (vehicles for the transport of 15 or fewer persons), 
                      or subheading 8702.xx, 8703.21 through 8703.90, 
                      8704.21 or 8704.31,  
 
            the value of non-originating materials used by the producer in 
            the production of the good shall be the sum of the values of 
            non-originating materials, determined in accordance with 
            Article 402(9) at the time the non-originating materials are 
            received by the first person in the territory of a Party who 
            takes title to them, that are imported from outside the 
            territories of the Parties under the tariff provisions listed 
            in Annex 403.1 and that are used in the production of the good 
            or that are used in the production of any material used in the 
            production of the good. 
 
            2.   For purposes of calculating the regional value content 
            under the net cost method set out in Article 402(3) for a good 
            that is a motor vehicle provided for in heading 87.01, tariff 
            item 8702.10.aa or 8702.90.aa (vehicles for the transport of 16 
            or more persons), subheading 8704.10, 8704.22, 8704.23, 8704.32 
            or 8704.90, or heading 87.05 or 87.06, or for a component 
            identified in Annex 403.2 for use as original equipment in the 
            production of the motor vehicle, the value of non-originating 
            materials used by the producer in the production of the good 
            shall be the sum of: 
 
                  (a)  for each material used by the producer listed in 
                      Annex 403.2, whether or not produced by the producer, 
                      at the choice of the producer and determined in 
                      accordance with Article 402, either 
 
                      (i)  the value of such material that is non- 
                           originating, or 
 
                      (ii) the value of non-originating materials used in 
                           the production of such material; and 
 
                 (b)  the value of any other non-originating material used 
                      by the producer that is not listed in Annex 403.2, 
                      determined in accordance with Article 402. 
 
            3.   For purposes of calculating the regional value content of 
            a motor vehicle identified in paragraph 1 or 2, the producer 
            may average its calculation over its fiscal year, using any one 
            of the following categories, on the basis of either all motor 
            vehicles in the category or only those motor vehicles in the 
            category that are exported to the territory of one or more of 
            the other Parties:  
 
                 (a)  the same model line of motor vehicles in the same 
                      class of vehicles produced in the same plant in the 
                      territory of a Party;  
 
                 (b)  the same class of motor vehicles produced in the same 
                      plant in the territory of a Party;  
 
                 (c)  the same model line of motor vehicles produced in the 
                      territory of a Party; or 
 
                 (d)  if applicable, the basis set out in Annex 403.3. 
 
            4.   For purposes of calculating the regional value content for 
            any or all goods provided for in a tariff provision listed in 
            Annex 403.1, or a component or material identified in Annex 
            403.2, produced in the same plant, the producer of the good 
            may: 
 
                 (a)  average its calculation 
 
                      (i)  over the fiscal year of the motor vehicle 
                           producer to whom the good is sold, 
 
                      (ii) over any quarter or month, or 
 
                      (iii)     over its fiscal year, if the good is sold 
                                as an aftermarket part; 
 
                 (b)  calculate the average referred to in subparagraph (a) 
                      separately for any or all goods sold to one or more 
                      motor vehicle producers; or 
 
                 (c)  with respect to any calculation under this paragraph, 
                      calculate separately those goods that are exported to 
                      the territory of one or more of the Parties. 
 
            5.   Notwithstanding Annex 401, and except as provided in 
            paragraph 6, the regional value-content requirement shall be: 
 
                 (a)  for a producer's fiscal year beginning on the day 
                      closest to January 1, 1998 and thereafter, 56 percent 
                      under the net cost method, and for a producer's 
                      fiscal year beginning on the day closest to January 
                      1, 2002 and thereafter, 62.5 percent under the net 
                      cost method, for 
 
                      (i)  a good that is a motor vehicle provided for in 
                           tariff item 8702.10.bb or 8702.90.bb (vehicles 
                           for the transport of 15 or fewer persons), or  
                           subheading 8703.21 through 8703.90, 8704.21 or 
                           8704.31, and 
 
                      (ii) a good provided for in heading 84.07 or 84.08, 
                           or subheading 8708.40, that is for use in a 
                           motor vehicle identified in subparagraph (a)(i); 
                           and  
 
                 (b)  for a producer's fiscal year beginning on the day 
                      closest to January 1, 1998 and thereafter, 55 percent 
                      under the net cost method, and for a producer's 
                      fiscal year beginning on the day closest to January 
                      1, 2002 and thereafter, 60 percent under the net cost 
                      method, for 
 
                      (i)  a good that is a motor vehicle provided for in 
                           heading 87.01, subheading 8702.yy (vehicles for 
                           the transport of 16 or more persons), 8704.10, 
                           8704.22, 8704.23, 8704.32 or 8704.90, or heading 
                           87.05 or 87.06, 
              
                      (ii) a good provided for in heading 84.07 or 84.08 or 
                           subheading 8708.40 that is for use in a motor 
                           vehicle identified in subparagraph (b)(i), and  
 
                      (iii)     except for a good identified in 
                                subparagraph (a)(ii) or provided for in 
                                subheading 8482.10 through 8482.80, 8483.20 
                                or 8483.30, a good identified in Annex 
                                403.1 that is subject to a regional value 
                                content requirement and that is for use in 
                                a motor vehicle identified in subparagraphs 
                                (a)(i) or (b)(i). 
 
            6.   The regional value-content requirement for a motor vehicle 
            identified in Article 403(1) or 403(2) shall be: 
 
                 (a)  50 percent for five years after the date on which the 
                      first motor vehicle prototype is produced in a plant 
                      by a motor vehicle assembler, if 
 
                      (i)  it is a motor vehicle of a class, or marque, or, 
                           except for a motor vehicle identified in Article 
                           403(2), size category and underbody, not 
                           previously produced by the motor vehicle 
                           assembler in the territory of any of the 
                           Parties, 
 
                      (ii) the plant consists of a new building in which 
                           the motor vehicle is assembled, and 
 
                      (iii)     the plant contains substantially all new 
                                machinery that is used in the assembly of 
                                the motor vehicle; or 
 
                 (b)  50 percent for two years after the date on which the 
                      first motor vehicle prototype is produced at a plant 
                      following a refit, if it is a different motor vehicle 
                      of a class, or marque, or, except for a motor vehicle 
                      identified in Article 403(2), size category and 
                      underbody, than was assembled by the motor vehicle 
                      assembler in the plant before the refit. 
 
 
            Article 404:   Accumulation 
 
            1.   For purposes of determining whether a good is an 
            originating good, the production of the good in the territory 
            of one or more of the Parties by one or more producers shall, 
            at the choice of the exporter or producer of the good for which 
            preferential tariff treatment is claimed, be considered to have 
            been performed in the territory of any of the Parties by that 
            exporter or producer, provided that: 
 
                 (a)  all non-originating materials used in the production 
                      of the good undergo an applicable tariff 
                      classification change set out in Annex 401, and the 
                      good satisfies any applicable regional value-content 
                      requirement, entirely in the territory of one or more 
                      of the Parties; and 
 
                  (b)  the good satisfies all other applicable requirements 
                      of this Chapter. 
 
            2.   For purposes of Article 402(10), the production of a 
            producer that chooses to accumulate its production with that of 
            other producers under paragraph 1 shall be considered to be the 
            production of a single producer. 
 
 
            Article 405:   De Minimis 
 
            1.   Except as provided in paragraphs 3 through 6, a good shall 
            be considered to be an originating good if the value of all 
            non-originating materials used in the production of the good 
            that do not undergo an applicable change in tariff 
            classification set out in Annex 401 is not more than seven 
            percent of the transaction value of the good, adjusted to a 
            F.O.B. basis, or, if the transaction value of the good is 
            unacceptable under Article 1 of the Customs Valuation Code, the 
            value of all such non-originating materials is not more than 
            seven percent of the total cost of the good, provided that: 
 
                 (a)  if the good is subject to a regional value-content 
                      requirement, the value of such non-originating 
                      materials shall be taken into account in calculating 
                      the regional value content of the good; and 
 
                 (b)  the good satisfies all other applicable requirements 
                      of this Chapter. 
 
            2.   A good that is otherwise subject to a regional value- 
            content requirement shall not be required to satisfy such 
            requirement if the value of all non-originating materials used 
            in the production of the good is not more than seven percent of 
            the transaction value of the good, adjusted to a F.O.B. basis, 
            or, if the transaction value of the good is unacceptable under 
            Article 1 of the Customs Valuation Code, the value of all non- 
            originating materials is not more than seven percent of the 
            total cost of the good, provided that the good satisfies all 
            other applicable requirements of this Chapter. 
 
            3.   Paragraph 1 does not apply to:  
 
                 (a)  a non-originating material provided for in Chapter 4 
                      of the Harmonized System or tariff item 1901.90.aa 
                      (dairy preparations containing over 10 percent by 
                      weight of milk solids) that is used in the production 
                      of a good provided for in Chapter 4 of the Harmonized 
                      System; 
 
                  (b)  a non-originating material provided for in Chapter 4 
                      of the Harmonized System or tariff item 1901.90.aa 
                      (dairy preparations containing over 10 percent by 
                      weight of milk solids) that is used in the production 
                      of a good provided for in tariff item 1901.10.aa 
                      (infant preparations containing over 10 percent by 
                      weight of milk solids), 1901.20.aa (mixes and doughs, 
                      containing over 25 percent by weight of butterfat, 
                      not put up for retail sale), 1901.90.aa (dairy 
                      preparations containing over 10 percent by weight of 
                      milk solids), heading 21.05, or tariff item 
                      2106.90.dd (preparations containing over 10 percent 
                      by weight of milk solids), 2202.90.cc (beverages 
                      containing milk) or 2309.90.aa (animal feeds 
                      containing over 10 percent by weight of milk solids 
                      and less than 6 percent by weight of grain or grain 
                      products);  
 
                 (c)  a non-originating material provided for in heading 
                      08.05 or subheading 2009.11 through 2009.30 that is 
                      used in the production of a good provided for in 
                      subheading 2009.11 through 2009.30 or tariff item 
                      2106.90.bb (concentrated fruit or vegetable juice of 
                      any single fruit or vegetable, fortified with 
                      minerals or vitamins) or 2202.90.aa (fruit or 
                      vegetable juice of any single fruit or vegetable, 
                      fortified with minerals or vitamins); 
 
                 (d)  a non-originating material provided for in Chapter 9 
                      of the Harmonized System that is used in the 
                      production of a good provided for in tariff item 
                      2101.10.aa (instant coffee, not flavored); 
 
                 (e)  a non-originating material provided for in Chapter 15 
                      of the Harmonized System that is used in the 
                      production of a good provided for in heading 15.01 
                      through 15.08, 15.12, 15.14 or 15.15; 
 
                 (f)  a non-originating material provided for in heading 
                      17.01 that is used in the production of a good 
                      provided for in heading 17.01 through 17.03; 
 
                 (g)  a non-originating material provided for in Chapter 17 
                      of the Harmonized System or heading 18.05 that is 
                      used in the production of a good provided for in 
                      subheading 1806.10; 
 
                 (h)  a non-originating material provided for in heading 
                      22.03 through 22.08 that is used in the production of 
                      a good provided for in heading 22.07 through 22.08; 
 
                  (i)  a non-originating material used in the production of 
                      a good provided for in tariff item 7321.11.aa (gas 
                      stove or range), subheading 8415.10, 8415.81 through 
                      8415.83, 8418.10 through 8418.21, 8418.29 through 
                      8418.40, 8421.12, 8422.11, 8450.11 through 8450.20 or 
                      8451.21 through 8451.29, Mexican tariff item 
                      8479.82.aa (trash compactors) or Canadian or U.S. 
                      tariff item 8479.89.aa (trash compactors), or tariff 
                      item 8516.60.aa (electric stove or range); and 
 
                 (j)  a printed circuit assembly that is a non-originating 
                      material used in the production of a good where the 
                      applicable change in tariff classification for the 
                      good, as set out in Annex 401, places restrictions on 
                      the use of such non-originating material. 
 
            4.   Paragraph 1 does not apply to a non-originating single 
            juice ingredient provided for in heading 20.09 that is used in 
            the production of a good provided for in subheading 2009.90, or 
            tariff item 2106.90.cc (concentrated mixtures of fruit or 
            vegetable juice, fortified with minerals or vitamins) or 
            2202.90.bb (mixtures of fruit or vegetable juices, fortified 
            with minerals or vitamins). 
 
            5.   Paragraph 1 does not apply to a non-originating material 
            used in the production of a good provided for in Chapter 1 
            through 27 of the Harmonized System unless the non-originating 
            material is provided for in a different subheading than the 
            good for which origin is being determined under this Article. 
 
            6.   A good provided for in Chapter 50 through 63 of the 
            Harmonized System that does not originate because certain 
            fibers or yarns used in the production of the component of the 
            good that determines the tariff classification of the good do 
            not undergo an applicable change in tariff classification set 
            out in Annex 401, shall nonetheless be considered to originate 
            if the total weight of all such fibers or yarns in that 
            component is not more than seven percent of the total weight of 
            that component. 
 
 
            Article 406:   Fungible Goods and Materials 
 
                 For purposes of determining whether a good is an 
            originating good:  
 
                 (a)  where originating and non-originating fungible 
                      materials are used in the production of a good, the 
                      determination of whether the materials are 
                      originating need not be made through the 
                      identification of any specific fungible material, 
                      but may be determined on the basis of any of the 
                      inventory management methods set out in the Uniform 
                      Regulations; and 
 
                 (b)  where originating and non-originating fungible goods 
                      are commingled and exported in the same form, the 
                      determination may be made on the basis of any of the 
                      inventory management methods set out in the Uniform 
                      Regulations. 
 
 
            Article 407:   Accessories, Spare Parts and Tools 
 
                 Accessories, spare parts or tools delivered with the good 
            that form part of the good's standard accessories, spare parts, 
            or tools, shall be considered as originating if the good 
            originates and shall be disregarded in determining whether all 
            the non-originating materials used in the production of the 
            good undergo the applicable change in tariff classification set 
            out in Annex 401, provided that: 
 
                 (a)  the accessories, spare parts or tools are not 
                      invoiced separately from the good; 
 
                 (b)  the quantities and value of the accessories, spare 
                      parts or tools are customary for the good; and 
              
                 (c)  if the good is subject to a regional value-content 
                      requirement, the value of the accessories, spare 
                      parts or tools shall be taken into account as 
                      originating or non-originating materials, as the case 
                      may be, in calculating the regional value content of 
                      the good. 
 
 
            Article 408:   Indirect Materials 
 
                 An indirect material shall be considered to be an 
            originating material without regard to where it is produced.  
 
 
            Article 409:   Packaging Materials and Containers for Retail 
                           Sale 
 
                 Packaging materials and containers in which a good is 
            packaged for retail sale shall, if classified with the good, be 
            disregarded in determining whether all the non-originating 
            materials used in the production of the good undergo the 
            applicable change in tariff classification set out in Annex 
            401, and, if the good is subject to a regional value-content 
            requirement, the value of such packaging materials and 
            containers shall be taken into account as originating or non- 
            originating materials, as the case may be, in calculating the 
            regional value content of the good. 
 
 
            Article 410:   Packing Materials and Containers for Shipment 
 
                 Packing materials and containers in which the good is 
            packed for shipment shall be disregarded in determining 
            whether:  
 
                 (a)  the non-originating materials used in the production 
                      of the good undergo an applicable change in tariff 
                      classification set out in Annex 401; and 
 
                 (b)  the good satisfies a regional value-content 
                      requirement. 
 
 
            Article 411:   Transshipment 
 
                 A good shall not be considered to be an originating good 
            by reason of having undergone production that satisfies the 
            requirements of Article 401 if, subsequent to that production, 
            the good undergoes further production or any other operation 
            outside the territories of the Parties, other than unloading, 
            reloading or any other operation necessary to preserve it in 
            good condition or to transport the good to the territory of a 
            Party. 
 
 
            Article 412:   Non-Qualifying Operations 
 
                 A good shall not be considered to be an originating good 
            merely by reason of: 
 
                 (a)  mere dilution with water or another substance that 
                      does not materially alter the characteristics of the 
                      good; or 
 
                 (b)  any production or pricing practice in respect of 
                      which it may be demonstrated, on the basis of a 
                      preponderance of evidence, that the object was to 
                      circumvent this Chapter. 
 
 
            Article 413:   Interpretation and Application 
 
            For purposes of this Chapter: 
 
                 (a)  the basis for tariff classification in this Chapter 
                      is the Harmonized System; 
 
                 (b)  where a good referred to by a tariff item number is 
                      described in parentheses following the tariff item 
                      number, the description is provided for purposes of 
                      reference only; 
 
                 (c)  where applying Article 401(d), the determination of 
                      whether a heading or subheading under the Harmonized 
                      System provides for and specifically describes both a 
                      good and its parts shall be made on the basis of the 
                      nomenclature of the heading or subheading, or the 
                      General Rules of Interpretation, the Chapter Notes or 
                      the Section Notes of the Harmonized System; 
 
                 (d)  in applying the Customs Valuation Code under this 
                      Chapter, 
 
                      (i)  the principles of the Customs Valuation Code 
                           shall apply to domestic transactions, with such 
                           modifications as may be required by the 
                           circumstances, as would apply to international 
                           transactions, 
 
                      (ii) the provisions of this Chapter shall take 
                           precedence over the Customs Valuation Code to 
                           the extent of any difference, and 
 
                      (iii)     the definitions in Article 415 shall take 
                                precedence over the definitions in the 
                                Customs Valuation Code to the extent of any 
                                difference; and 
 
                 (e)  all costs referred to in this Chapter shall be 
                      recorded and maintained in accordance with the 
                      Generally Accepted Accounting Principles applicable 
                      in the territory of the Party in which the good is 
                      produced. 
 
 
            Article 414:   Consultation and Modifications 
 
            1.   The Parties shall consult regularly to ensure that this 
            Chapter is administered effectively, uniformly and consistently 
            with the spirit and objectives of this Agreement, and shall 
            cooperate in the administration of this Chapter in accordance 
            with Chapter Five. 
 
            2.   Any Party that considers that this Chapter requires 
            modification to take into account developments in production 
            processes or other matters may submit a proposed modification 
            along with supporting rationale and any studies to the other 
            Parties for consideration and any appropriate action under 
            Chapter Five. 
 
 
            Article 415:   Definitions  
 
            For purposes of this Chapter: 
 
            class of motor vehicles means any one of the following 
            categories of motor vehicles: 
 
                 (a)  motor vehicles provided for in subheading 8701.20, 
                      tariff item 8702.10.aa or 8702.90.aa (vehicles for 
                      the transport of 16 or more persons), subheading 
                      8704.10, 8704.22, 8704.23, 8704.32 or 8704.90, or 
                      heading 87.05 and 87.06; 
 
                 (b)  motor vehicles provided for in subheading 8701.10 or 
                      8701.30 through 8701.90; 
 
                 (c)  motor vehicles provided for in tariff item 8702.10.bb 
                      or 8702.90.bb (vehicles for the transport of 15 or 
                      fewer persons), or subheading 8704.21 and 8704.31; or 
 
 
                 (d)  motor vehicles provided for in subheading 8703.21 
                      through 8703.90;  
 
            F.O.B. means free on board, regardless of the mode of 
            transportation, at the point of direct shipment by the seller 
            to the buyer; 
 
            fungible goods or fungible materials means goods or materials 
            that are interchangeable for commercial purposes and whose 
            properties are essentially identical; 
 
            goods wholly obtained or produced entirely in the territory of 
            one or more of the Parties means: 
 
                 (a)  mineral goods extracted in the territory of one or 
                      more of the Parties; 
 
                 (b)  vegetable goods, as such goods are defined in the 
                      Harmonized System, harvested in the territory of one 
                      or more of the Parties; 
 
                 (c)  live animals born and raised in the territory of one 
                      or more of the Parties; 
 
                 (d)  goods obtained from hunting, trapping or fishing in 
                      the territory of one or more of the Parties;  
 
                 (e)  goods (fish, shellfish and other marine life) taken 
                      from the sea by vessels registered or recorded with a 
                      Party and flying its flag; 
 
                 (f)  goods produced on board factory ships from the goods 
                      referred to in subparagraph (e) provided such factory 
                      ships are registered or recorded with that Party and 
                      fly its flag; 
 
                 (g)  goods taken by a Party or a person of a Party from 
                      the seabed or beneath the seabed outside territorial 
                      waters, provided that a Party has rights to exploit 
                      such seabed; 
 
                 (h)  goods taken from outer space, provided they are 
                      obtained by a Party or a person of a Party and not 
                      processed in a non-Party; 
 
                 (i)  waste and scrap derived from 
 
                      (i)  production in the territory of one or more of 
                           the Parties, or 
 
                      (ii) used goods collected in the territory of one or 
                           more of the Parties, provided such goods are fit 
                           only for the recovery of raw materials; and 
 
                 (j)  goods produced in the territory of one or more of the 
                      Parties exclusively from goods referred to in 
                      subparagraphs (a) through (i), or from their 
                      derivatives, at any stage of production; 
 
            identical or similar goods means "identical goods" and "similar 
            goods", respectively, as defined in the Customs Valuation Code; 
 
            indirect material means a good used in the production, testing 
            or inspection of a good but not physically incorporated into 
            the good, or a good used in the maintenance of buildings or the 
            operation of equipment associated with the production of a 
            good, including: 
 
                 (a)  fuel and energy; 
 
                 (b)  tools, dies and molds; 
 
                 (c)  spare parts and materials used in the maintenance of 
                      equipment and buildings; 
 
                 (d)  lubricants, greases, compounding materials and other 
                      materials used in production or used to operate 
                      equipment and buildings; 
 
                 (e)  gloves, glasses, footwear, clothing, safety equipment 
                      and supplies; 
 
                 (f)  equipment, devices, and supplies used for testing or 
                      inspecting the goods; 
 
                 (g)  catalysts and solvents; and 
 
                 (h)  any other goods that are not incorporated into the 
                      good but whose use in the production of the good can 
                      reasonably be demonstrated to be a part of that 
                      production; 
 
            intermediate material means a material that is self-produced 
            and used in the production of a good, and designated pursuant 
            to Article 402(10);  
 
            marque means the trade name used by a separate marketing 
            division of a motor vehicle assembler; 
 
            material means a good that is used in the production of another 
            good, and includes a part or an ingredient; 
 
            model line means a group of motor vehicles having the same 
            platform or model name; 
 
            motor vehicle assembler means a producer of motor vehicles and 
            any related persons or joint ventures in which the producer 
            participates; 
 
            new building means a new construction, including at least the 
            pouring or construction of new foundation and floor, the 
            erection of a new structure and roof, and installation of new 
            plumbing, electrical and other utilities to house a complete 
            vehicle assembly process; 
 
            net cost means total cost minus sales promotion, marketing and 
            after-sales service costs, royalties, shipping and packing 
            costs, and non-allowable interest costs that are included in 
            the total cost; 
 
            net cost of a good means the net cost that can be reasonably 
            allocated to a good using one of the methods set out in Article 
            402(8); 
 
            non-allowable interest costs means interest costs incurred by a 
            producer that exceed 700 basis points above the applicable 
            federal government interest rate identified in the Uniform 
            Regulations for comparable maturities; 
 
            non-originating good or non-originating material means a good 
            or material that does not qualify as originating under this 
            Chapter; 
 
            producer means a person who grows, mines, harvests, fishes, 
            traps, hunts, manufactures, processes or assembles a good; 
 
            production means growing, mining, harvesting, fishing, 
            trapping, hunting, manufacturing, processing or assembling a 
            good; 
 
            reasonably allocate means to apportion in a manner appropriate 
            to the circumstances; 
 
            refit means a plant closure, for purposes of plant conversion 
            or retooling, that lasts at least three months; 
 
            related person means a person related to another person on the 
            basis that: 
 
                 (a)  they are officers or directors of one another's 
                      businesses; 
 
                 (b)  they are legally recognized partners in business; 
 
                 (c)  they are employer and employee; 
 
                 (d)  any person directly or indirectly owns, controls or 
                      holds 25 percent or more of the outstanding voting 
                      stock or shares of each of them; 
 
                 (e)  one of them directly or indirectly controls the 
                      other; 
 
                 (f)  both of them are directly or indirectly controlled by 
                      a third person; or 
 
                 (g)  they are members of the same family (members of the 
                      same family are natural or adoptive children, 
                      brothers, sisters, parents, grandparents, or 
                      spouses);  
 
            royalties means payments of any kind, including payments under 
            technical assistance or similar agreements, made as 
            consideration for the use or right to use any copyright, 
            literary, artistic, or scientific work, patent, trademark, 
            design, model, plan, secret formula or process, excluding those 
            payments under technical assistance or similar agreements that 
            can be related to specific services such as: 
 
                 (a)  personnel training, without regard to where 
                      performed; and 
 
                 (b)  if performed in the territory of one or more of the 
                      Parties, engineering, tooling, die-setting, software 
                      design and similar computer services, or other 
                      services; 
 
            sales promotion, marketing and after-sales service costs means 
            the following costs related to sales promotion, marketing and 
            after-sales service: 
 
                 (a)  sales and marketing promotion; media advertising; 
                      advertising and market research; promotional and 
                      demonstration materials, exhibits; sales conferences, 
                      trade shows and conventions; banners; marketing 
                      displays; free samples; sales, marketing and after- 
                      sales service literature (product brochures, 
                      catalogs, technical literature, price lists, service 
                      manuals, sales aid information); establishment and 
                      protection of logos and trademarks; sponsorships; 
                      wholesale and retail restocking charges; 
                      entertainment; 
 
                 (b)  sales and marketing incentives; consumer, retailer or 
                      wholesaler rebates; merchandise incentives; 
 
                 (c)  salaries and wages, sales commissions, bonuses, 
                      benefits (for example, medical, insurance, pension), 
                      travelling and living expenses, membership and 
                      professional fees, for sales promotion, marketing and 
                      after-sales service personnel;  
 
                 (d)  recruiting and training of sales promotion, marketing 
                      and after-sales service personnel, and after-sales 
                      training of customers' employees, where such costs 
                      are identified separately for sales promotion, 
                      marketing and after-sales service of goods on the 
                      financial statements or cost accounts of the 
                      producer;  
 
                 (e)  product liability insurance;  
 
                 (f)  office supplies for sales promotion, marketing and 
                      after-sales service of goods, where such costs are 
                      identified separately for sales promotion, marketing 
                      and after-sales service of goods on the financial 
                      statements or cost accounts of the producer;  
 
                 (g)  telephone, mail and other communications, where such 
                      costs are identified separately for sales promotion, 
                      marketing and after-sales service of goods on the 
                      financial statements or cost accounts of the 
                      producer; 
 
                 (h)  rent and depreciation of sales promotion, marketing 
                      and after-sales service offices and distribution 
                      centers; 
 
                 (i)  property insurance premiums, taxes, cost of 
                      utilities, and repair and maintenance of sales 
                      promotion, marketing and after-sales service offices 
                      and distribution centers, where such costs are 
                      identified separately for sales promotion, marketing 
                      and after-sales service of goods on the financial 
                      statements or cost accounts of the producer; and  
 
                 (j)  payments by the producer to other persons for 
                      warranty repairs; 
 
            self-produced material means a material that is produced by the 
            producer of a good and used in the production of that good; 
 
            shipping and packing costs means the costs incurred in packing 
            a good for shipment and shipping the good from the point of 
            direct shipment to the buyer, excluding costs of preparing and 
            packaging the good for retail sale; 
 
            size category means for a motor vehicle identified in Article 
            403(1)(a): 
 
                      (i)  85 or less cubic feet of passenger and luggage 
                           interior volume,  
 
                      (ii) between 85 and 100 cubic feet of passenger and 
                           luggage interior volume,  
 
                      (iii)     100 to 110 cubic feet of passenger and 
                                luggage interior volume,  
 
                      (iv) between 110 and 120 cubic feet of passenger and 
                           luggage interior volume, and 
 
                      (v)  120 and more cubic feet of passenger and luggage 
                           interior volume; 
 
            total cost means all product costs, period costs and other 
            costs incurred in the territory of one or more of the Parties; 
            transaction value means the price actually paid or payable for 
            a good or material with respect to a transaction of, except for 
            the application of Article 403(1) or 403(2)(a), the producer of 
            the good, adjusted in accordance with the principles of 
            paragraphs 1, 3 and 4 of Article 8 of the Customs Valuation 
            Code, regardless of whether the good or material is sold for 
            export; 
 
            used means used or consumed in the production of goods; and 
            underbody means the floor pan of a motor vehicle. 
                                     
                                      Annex 403.1 
 
                      List of Tariff Provisions for Article 403(1) 
 
 
            Note:     For purposes of reference only, descriptions are 
                      provided next to the corresponding tariff provision. 
 
            40.09 (tubes, pipes and hoses) 
            4010.10 (rubber belts) 
            40.11 (tires) 
            4016.93.aa (rubber, gaskets, washers and other seals for 
            automotive goods) 
            4016.99.aa (vibration control goods) 
            7007.11 and 7007.21 (laminated safety glass) 
            7009.10 (rear-view mirrors) 
            8301.20 (locks for the kind used on motor vehicles) 
            8407.31 (engines of a cylinder capacity not exceeding 50cc)  
            8407.32 (engines of a cylinder capacity exceeding 50cc but not 
            exceeding 250cc) 
            8407.33 (engines of a cylinder capacity exceeding 250cc but not 
            exceeding 1000cc) 
            8407.34.aa (engines of a cylinder capacity exceeding 1000cc but 
            not exceeding 2000cc); 
            8407.34.bb (engines of a cylinder capacity exceeding 2000cc) 
            8408.20 (diesel engines for vehicles of Chapter 87) 
            84.09 (parts of engines) 
            8413.30 (pumps) 
            8414.80.22 (turbochargers and superchargers for motor vehicles, 
            where not provided for under subheading 
               8414.59) 
            8414.59.aa (turbochargers and superchargers for motor vehicles, 
            where not provided for under subheading 
               8414.80) 
            8415.81 through 8415.83 (air conditioners) 
            8421.39.aa (catalytic convertors) 
            8481.20, 8481.30 and 8481.80 (valves) 
            8482.10 through 8482.80 (ball bearings) 
            8483.10 through 8483.40 (transmission shafts and housed ball 
            bearings) 
            8483.50 (flywheels) 
            8501.10 (electric motors) 
            8501.20 (electric motors) 
            8501.31 (electric motors) 
            8501.32.aa (electric motors that provide primary source for 
            electric powered vehicles of subheading 
               8703.90) 
 
                              Annex 403.1                                   
 
            8507.20.aa, 8507.30.aa, 8507.40.aa and 8507.80.aa (batteries 
            that provide primary source for electric cars) 
            8511.30 (distributors) 
            8511.40 (starter motors) 
            8511.50 (other generators) 
            8512.20 (other lighting or visual signalling equipment) 
            8512.40 (windscreen wipers, defrosters) 
            8519.91 (cassette decks) 
            8527.21 (radios combined with cassette players) 
            8527.29 (radios) 
            8536.50 (switches) 
            8536.90 (junction boxes) 
            8537.10.aa (motor control centers) 
            8539.10 (seal beamed headlamps) 
            8539.21 (tungsten halogen headlamps) 
            8544.30 (wire harnesses) 
            87.06 (chassis) 
            87.07 (bodies) 
            8708.10.aa (bumpers but not parts thereof) 
            8708.21 (safety seat belts) 
            8708.29.aa (body stampings) 
            8708.29.bb (inflators and modules for airbags) 
            8708.29.cc (door assemblies) 
            8708.29.dd (airbags for use in motor vehicles, where not 
            provided for under subheading 8708.99) 
            8708.39 (brakes and servo-brakes, and parts thereof) 
            8708.40 (gear boxes, transmissions) 
            8708.50 (drive axles with differential, whether or not provided 
            with other transmission components) 
            8708.60 (non-driving axles, and parts thereof) 
            8708.70.aa (road wheels, but not parts or accessories thereof) 
            8708.80 (suspension shock-absorbers) 
            8708.91 (radiators) 
            8708.92 (silencers (mufflers) and exhaust pipes) 
            8708.93.aa (clutches, but not parts thereof) 
            8708.94 (steering wheels, steering columns and steering boxes)  
            8708.99.aa (vibration control goods containing rubber) 
            8708.99.bb (double flanged wheel hub units) 
            8708.99.cc (airbags for use in motor vehicles, where not 
            provided for under subheading 8708.29) 
            8708.99.dd (half-shafts and drive shafts) 
            8708.99.ee (other parts for powertrains) 
            8708.99.ff (parts for suspension systems) 
            8708.99.gg (parts for steering systems) 
            8708.99.hh (other parts and accessories not provided for 
            elsewhere in subheading 8708.99) 
            9031.80 (monitoring devices) 
            9032.89 (automatic regulating instruments) 
   
                        Annex 403.1                                         
 
            9401.20 (seats) 
 
                                      Annex 403.2 
 
                            List of Components and Materials 
 
 
            1.   Component: Engines provided for in heading 84.07 or 84.08 
 
                 Materials: cast block, cast head, fuel nozzle, fuel 
                 injector pumps, glow plugs, turbochargers and 
                 superchargers, electronic engine controls, intake 
                 manifold, exhaust manifold, intake/exhaust valves, 
                 crankshaft/camshaft, alternator, starter, air cleaner 
                 assembly, pistons, connecting rods and assemblies made 
                 therefrom (or rotor assemblies for rotary engines), 
                 flywheel (for manual transmissions), flexplate (for 
                 automatic transmissions), oil pan, oil pump and pressure 
                 regulator, water pump, crankshaft and camshaft gears, and 
                 radiator assemblies or charge-air coolers. 
 
            2.   Component: Gear boxes (transmissions) provided for in 
                 subheading 8708.40 
 
                 Materials: (a) for manual transmissions - transmission 
                 case and clutch housing; clutch; internal shifting 
                 mechanism; gear sets, synchronizers and shafts; and (b) 
                 for torque convertor type transmissions - transmission 
                 case and convertor housing; torque convertor assembly; 
                 gear sets and clutches; and electronic transmission 
                 controls. 
 

                                      Annex 403.3 
 
                      Regional Value-Content Calculation for CAMI 
 
 
            1.   For purposes of Article 403, in determining whether motor 
            vehicles produced by CAMI Automotive, Inc. ("CAMI") in the 
            territory of Canada and imported into the territory of the 
            United States qualify as originating goods, CAMI may average 
            its calculation of the regional value content of a class of 
            motor vehicles or a model line of motor vehicles produced in a 
            fiscal year in the territory of Canada by CAMI for sale in the 
            territory of one or more of the Parties with the calculation of 
            the regional value content of the corresponding class of motor 
            vehicles or model line of motor vehicles produced in the 
            territory of Canada by General Motors of Canada Limited in the 
            fiscal year that corresponds most closely to CAMI's fiscal 
            year, provided that:  
 
                 (a)  at the beginning of CAMI's fiscal year General Motors 
                      of Canada Limited owns 50 percent or more of the 
                      voting common stock of CAMI; and 
 
                 (b)  General Motors of Canada Limited, General Motors 
                      Corporation, General Motors de Mexico, S.A. de C.V., 
                      and any subsidiary directly or indirectly owned by 
                      any of them, or by any combination thereof, ("GM") 
                      acquires 75 percent or more by unit of quantity of 
                      the class of motor vehicles or model line of motor 
                      vehicles, as the case may be, that CAMI has produced 
                      in the territory of Canada in CAMI's fiscal year for 
                      sale in the territory of one or more of the Parties. 
 
            2.   If GM acquires less than 75 percent by unit of quantity of 
            the class of motor vehicles or model line of motor vehicles, as 
            the case may be, that CAMI has produced in the territory of 
            Canada in CAMI's fiscal year for sale in the territory of one 
            or more of the Parties, CAMI may average in the manner set out 
            in paragraph 1 only those motor vehicles that are acquired by 
            GM for distribution under the GEO marque or other GM marque. 
 
            3.   In calculating the regional value content of motor 
            vehicles produced by CAMI in the territory of Canada, CAMI may 
            choose to average the calculation in paragraph 1 or 2 over a 
            period of two fiscal years in the event that any motor vehicle 
            assembly plant operated by CAMI or any motor vehicle assembly 
            plant operated by General Motors of Canada Limited with which 
 
                            Annex 403.3                                     

            CAMI is averaging its regional value content is closed for more 
            than two consecutive months: 
 
                 (a)  for the purpose of re-tooling for a model change, or 
 
                 (b)  as the result of any event or circumstance (other 
                      than the imposition of antidumping and countervailing 
                      duties, or an interruption of operations resulting 
                      from a labor strike, lock-out, labor dispute, 
                      picketing or boycott of or by employees of CAMI or 
                      GM), that CAMI or GM could not reasonably have been 
                      expected to avert by corrective action or by exercise 
                      of due care and diligence, including a shortage of 
                      materials, failure of utilities, or inability to 
                      obtain or delay in obtaining raw materials, parts, 
                      fuel or utilities. 
 
            The averaging may be for CAMI's fiscal year in which a CAMI or 
            any General Motors of Canada Limited plant with which CAMI is 
            averaging is closed and either the previous or subsequent 
            fiscal year.  In the event that the period of closure spans two 
            fiscal years, the averaging may be only for those two fiscal 
            years. 
 
            4.   For purposes of this Article, where as a result of an 
            amalgamation, reorganization, division or similar transaction: 
 
                 (a)  a motor vehicle producer (the "successor producer") 
                      acquires all or substantially all of the assets used 
                      by GM, and 
 
                 (b)  the successor producer, directly or indirectly 
                      controls, or is controlled by, GM, or both the 
                      successor producer and GM are controlled by the same 
                      person, 
 
            the successor producer shall be deemed to be GM. 
 
Title:Customs Procedures -- Chapter Five
Author: White House
Document-Date: 29 Sept 1993
Content-Type: text/plain; CHARSET=US-ASCII
Content-Length:46776

                                     Chapter Five  
 
                                  Customs Procedures  
 
 
                          Section A - Certification of Origin 
 
 
            Article 501:   Certificate of Origin 
 
            1.   The Parties shall establish by January 1, 1994 a 
            Certificate of Origin for the purpose of certifying that a good 
            being exported from the territory of a Party into the territory 
            of another Party qualifies as an originating good, and may 
            thereafter revise the Certificate by agreement.  
 
            2.   Each Party may require that a Certificate of Origin for a 
            good imported into its territory be completed in a language 
            required under its law. 
 
            3.   Each Party shall: 
 
                 (a)  require an exporter in its territory to complete and 
                      sign a Certificate of Origin for any exportation of a 
                      good for which an importer may claim preferential 
                      tariff treatment on importation of the good into the 
                      territory of another Party; and 
 
                 (b)  provide that where an exporter in its territory is 
                      not the producer of the good, the exporter may 
                      complete and sign a Certificate on the basis of 
 
                      (i)  its knowledge of whether the good qualifies as 
                           an originating good,  
 
                      (ii) its reasonable reliance on the producer's 
                           written representation that the good qualifies 
                           as an originating good, or 
 
                      (iii)     a completed and signed Certificate for the 
                                good voluntarily provided to the exporter 
                                by the producer. 
 
            4.   Nothing in paragraph 3 shall be construed to require a 
            producer to provide a Certificate of Origin to an exporter. 
 
            5.   Each Party shall provide that a Certificate of Origin that 
            has been completed and signed by an exporter or a producer in 
            the territory of another Party that is applicable to: 
 
                 (a)  a single importation of a good into the Party's 
                      territory, or 
 
                 (b)  multiple importations of identical goods into the 
                      Party's territory that occur within a specified 
                      period, not exceeding 12 months, set out therein by 
                      the exporter or producer, 
 
            shall be accepted by its customs administration for four years 
            after the date on which the Certificate was signed. 
 
 
            Article 502:   Obligations Regarding Importations 
 
            1.   Except as otherwise provided in this Chapter, each Party 
            shall require an importer in its territory that claims 
            preferential tariff treatment for a good imported into its 
            territory from the territory of another Party to: 
 
                 (a)  make a written declaration, based on a valid 
                      Certificate of Origin, that the good qualifies as an 
                      originating good; 
 
                 (b)  have the Certificate in its possession at the time 
                      the declaration is made; 
 
                 (c)  provide, on the request of that Party's customs 
                      administration, a copy of the Certificate; and 
 
                 (d)  promptly make a corrected declaration and pay any 
                      duties owing where the importer has reason to believe 
                      that a Certificate on which a declaration was based 
                      contains information that is not correct. 
 
            2.   Each Party shall provide that, where an importer in its 
            territory claims preferential tariff treatment for a good 
            imported into its territory from the territory of another 
            Party: 
 
                 (a)  the Party may deny preferential tariff treatment to 
                      the good if the importer fails to comply with any 
                      requirement under this Chapter; and 
 
                 (b)  the importer shall not be subject to penalties for 
                      the making of an incorrect declaration, if it 
                      voluntarily makes a corrected declaration pursuant to 
                      paragraph 1(d). 
 
            3.   Each Party shall provide that, where a good would have 
            qualified as an originating good when it was imported into the 
            territory of that Party but no claim for preferential tariff 
            treatment was made at that time, the importer of the good may, 
            no later than one year after the date on which the good was 
            imported, apply for a refund of any excess duties paid as the 
            result of the good not having been accorded preferential tariff 
            treatment, on presentation of: 
 
                 (a)  a written declaration that the good qualified as an 
                      originating good at the time of importation;  
 
                 (b)  a copy of the Certificate of Origin; and  
 
                 (c)  such other documentation relating to the importation 
                      of the good as that Party may require. 
 
 
            Article 503:   Exceptions  
 
                 Each Party shall provide that a Certificate of Origin 
            shall not be required for: 
 
                 (a)  a commercial importation of a good whose value does 
                      not exceed US$1,000 or its equivalent amount in the 
                      Party's currency, or such higher amount as it may 
                      establish, except that it may require that the 
                      invoice accompanying the importation include a 
                      statement certifying that the good qualifies as an 
                      originating good,  
 
                 (b)  a non-commercial importation of a good whose value 
                      does not exceed US$1,000 or its equivalent amount in 
                      the Party's currency, or such higher amount as it may 
                      establish, or 
 
                 (c)  an importation of a good for which the Party into 
                      whose territory the good is imported has waived the 
                      requirement for a Certificate of Origin, 
 
            provided that the importation does not form part of a series of 
            importations that may reasonably be considered to have been 
            undertaken or arranged for the purpose of avoiding the 
            certification requirements of Articles 501 and 502. 
 
 
            Article 504:   Obligations Regarding Exportations  
 
            1.   Each Party shall provide that: 
 
                 (a)  an exporter in its territory, or a producer in its 
                      territory that has provided a copy of a Certificate 
                      of Origin to that exporter pursuant to Article 
                      501(3)(b)(iii), shall provide a copy of the 
                      Certificate to its customs administration on request; 
                      and 
 
                 (b)  an exporter or a producer in its territory that has 
                      completed and signed a Certificate of Origin, and 
                      that has reason to believe that the Certificate 
                      contains information that is not correct, shall 
                      promptly notify in writing all persons to whom the 
                      Certificate was given by the exporter or producer of 
                      any change that could affect the accuracy or validity 
                      of the Certificate. 
 
            2.   Each Party: 
 
                 (a)  shall provide that a false certification by an 
                      exporter or a producer in its territory that a good 
                      to be exported to the territory of another Party 
                      qualifies as an originating good shall have the same 
                      legal consequences, with appropriate modifications, 
                      as would apply to an importer in its territory for a 
                      contravention of its customs laws and regulations 
                      regarding the making of a false statement or 
                      representation; and 
 
                 (b)  may apply such measures as the circumstances may 
                      warrant where an exporter or a producer in its 
                      territory fails to comply with any requirement of 
                      this Chapter. 
 
            3.   No Party may impose penalties on an exporter or a producer 
            in its territory that voluntarily provides written notification 
            pursuant to paragraph (1)(b) with respect to the making of an 
            incorrect certification. 
 
 
                       Section B - Administration and Enforcement 
 
 
            Article 505:   Records 
 
                 Each Party shall provide that: 
 
                 (a)  an exporter or a producer in its territory that 
                      completes and signs a Certificate of Origin shall 
                      maintain in its territory, for five years after the 
                      date on which the Certificate was signed or for such 
                      longer period as the Party may specify, all records 
                      relating to the origin of a good for which 
                      preferential tariff treatment was claimed in the 
                      territory of another Party, including records 
                      associated with 
  
                      (i)  the purchase of, cost of, value of, and payment 
                           for, the good that is exported from its 
                           territory, 
 
                      (ii) the purchase of, cost of, value of, and payment 
                           for, all materials, including indirect 
                           materials, used in the production of the good 
                           that is exported from its territory, and 
 
                      (iii)     the production of the good in the form in 
                                which the good is exported from its 
                                territory; and 
 
                 (b)  an importer claiming preferential tariff treatment 
                      for a good imported into the Party's territory shall 
                      maintain in that territory, for five years after the 
                      date of importation of the good or for such longer 
                      period as the Party may specify, such documentation, 
                      including a copy of the Certificate, as the Party may 
                      require relating to the importation of the good. 
 
 
            Article 506:   Origin Verifications 
 
            1.   For purposes of determining whether a good imported into 
            its territory from the territory of another Party qualifies as 
            an originating good, a Party may, through its customs 
            administration, conduct a verification solely by means of: 
 
                 (a)  written questionnaires to an exporter or a producer 
                      in the territory of another Party;  
 
                 (b)  visits to the premises of an exporter or a producer 
                      in the territory of another Party to review the 
                      records referred to in Article 505(a) and observe the 
                      facilities used in the production of the good; or 
 
                 (c)  such other procedure as the Parties may agree. 
 
            2.   Prior to conducting a verification visit pursuant to 
            paragraph (1)(b), a Party shall, through its customs 
            administration: 
 
                 (a)  deliver a written notification of its intention to 
                      conduct the visit to 
 
                      (i)  the exporter or producer whose premises are to 
                           be visited, 
 
                      (ii) the customs administration of the Party in whose 
                           territory the visit is to occur, and 
 
                      (iii)     if requested by the Party in whose 
                                territory the visit is to occur, the 
                                embassy of that Party in the territory of 
                                the Party proposing to conduct the visit; 
                                and 
 
                 (b)  obtain the written consent of the exporter or 
                      producer whose premises are to be visited. 
 
            3.   The notification referred to in paragraph 2 shall include: 
 
                 (a)  the identity of the customs administration issuing 
                      the notification; 
 
                 (b)  the name of the exporter or producer whose premises 
                      are to be visited; 
 
                 (c)  the date and place of the proposed verification 
                      visit; 
 
                 (d)  the object and scope of the proposed verification 
                      visit, including specific reference to the good that 
                      is the subject of the verification; 
 
                 (e)  the names and titles of the officials performing the 
                      verification visit; and 
 
                 (f)  the legal authority for the verification visit. 
              
            4.   Where an exporter or a producer has not given its written 
            consent to a proposed verification visit within 30 days of 
            receipt of notification pursuant to paragraph 2, the notifying 
            Party may deny preferential tariff treatment to the good that 
            would have been the subject of the visit. 
 
            5.   Each Party shall provide that, where its customs 
            administration receives notification pursuant to paragraph 2, 
            the customs administration may, within 15 days of receipt of 
            the notification, postpone the proposed verification visit for 
            a period not exceeding 60 days from the date of such receipt, 
            or for such longer period as the Parties may agree. 
 
            6.   A Party shall not deny preferential tariff treatment to a 
            good based solely on the postponement of a verification visit 
            pursuant to paragraph 5. 
 
            7.   Each Party shall permit an exporter or a producer whose 
            good is the subject of a verification visit by another Party to 
            designate two observers to be present during the visit, 
            provided that: 
 
                  (a)  the observers do not participate in a manner other 
                      than as observers; and 
 
                 (b)  the failure of the exporter or producer to designate 
                      observers shall not result in the postponement of the 
                      visit. 
 
            8.   Each Party shall, through its customs administration, 
            conduct a verification of a regional value-content requirement 
            in accordance with the Generally Accepted Accounting Principles 
            applied in the territory of the Party from which the good was 
            exported. 
 
            9.   The Party conducting a verification shall provide the 
            exporter or producer whose good is the subject of the 
            verification with a written determination of whether the good 
            qualifies as an originating good, including findings of fact 
            and the legal basis for the determination. 
 
            10.  Where verifications by a Party indicate a pattern of 
            conduct by an exporter or a producer of false or unsupported 
            representations that a good imported into its territory 
            qualifies as an originating good, the Party may withhold 
            preferential tariff treatment to identical goods exported or 
            produced by such person until that person establishes 
            compliance with Chapter Four (Rules of Origin). 
 
            11.  Each Party shall provide that where it determines that a 
            certain good imported into its territory does not qualify as an 
            originating good based on a tariff classification or a value 
            applied by the Party to one or more materials used in the 
            production of the good, which differs from the tariff 
            classification or value applied to the materials by the Party 
            from whose territory the good was exported, the Party's 
            determination shall not become effective until it notifies in 
            writing both the importer of the good and the person that 
            completed and signed the Certificate of Origin for the good of 
            its determination. 
 
            12.  A Party shall not apply a determination made under 
            paragraph 11 to an importation made before the effective date 
            of the determination where: 
 
                 (a)  the customs administration of the Party from whose 
                      territory the good was exported has issued an advance 
                      ruling on the tariff classification or on the value 
                      of such materials, or has given consistent treatment 
                      to the entry of the materials under the tariff 
                      classification or value at issue, on which a person 
                      is entitled to rely; and 
 
                  (b)  the advance ruling or consistent treatment was given 
                      prior to notification of the determination. 
 
            13.  If a Party denies preferential tariff treatment to a good 
            pursuant to a determination made under paragraph 11, it shall 
            postpone the effective date of the denial for a period not 
            exceeding 90 days where the importer of the good, or the person 
            who completed and signed the Certificate of Origin for the 
            good, demonstrates that it has relied in good faith to its 
            detriment on the tariff classification or value applied to such 
            materials by the customs administration of the Party from whose 
            territory the good was exported. 
 
 
            Article 507:   Confidentiality 
 
            1.   Each Party shall maintain, in accordance with its law, the 
            confidentiality of confidential business information collected 
            pursuant to this Chapter and shall protect that information 
            from disclosure that could prejudice the competitive position 
            of the persons providing the information.  
 
            2.   The confidential business information collected pursuant 
            to this Chapter may only be disclosed to those authorities 
            responsible for the administration and enforcement of 
            determinations of origin, and of customs and revenue matters. 
 
 
            Article 508:   Penalties 
 
            1.   Each Party shall maintain measures imposing criminal, 
            civil or administrative penalties for violations of its laws 
            and regulations relating to this Chapter.  
 
            2.   Nothing in Articles 502(2), 504(3) or 506(6) shall be 
            construed to prevent a Party from applying such measures as the 
            circumstances may warrant. 
 
 
                              Section C - Advance Rulings 
 
 
            Articles 509:  Advance Rulings 
 
            1.   Each Party shall, through its customs administration, 
            provide for the expeditious issuance of written advance 
            rulings, prior to the importation of a good into its territory, 
            to an importer in its territory or an exporter or a producer in 
            the territory of another Party, on the basis of the facts and 
            circumstances presented by such importer, exporter or producer 
            of the good, concerning: 
 
                  (a)  whether materials imported from a non-Party used in 
                      the production of a good undergo an applicable change 
                      in tariff classification set out in Annex 401 as a 
                      result of production occurring entirely in the 
                      territory of one or more of the Parties; 
 
                 (b)  whether a good satisfies a regional value-content 
                      requirement under either the transaction value method 
                      or the net cost method set out in Chapter Four; 
 
                 (c)  for the purpose of determining whether a good 
                      satisfies a regional value-content requirement under 
                      Chapter Four, the appropriate basis or method for 
                      value to be applied by an exporter or a producer in 
                      the territory of another Party, in accordance with 
                      the principles of the Customs Valuation Code, for 
                      calculating the transaction value of the good or of 
                      the materials used in the production of the good; 
 
                 (d)  for the purpose of determining whether a good 
                      satisfies a regional value-content requirement under 
                      Chapter Four, the appropriate basis or method for 
                      reasonably allocating costs, in accordance with the 
                      allocation methods set out in the Uniform 
                      Regulations, for calculating the net cost of the good 
                      or the value of an intermediate material; 
 
                 (e)  whether a good qualifies as an originating good under 
                      Chapter Four; 
 
                 (f)  whether a good that re-enters its territory after the 
                      good has been exported from its territory to the 
                      territory of another Party for repair or alteration 
                      qualifies for duty-free treatment in accordance with 
                      Article 307 (Goods Re-Entered after Repair or 
                      Alteration);  
 
                 (g)  whether the proposed or actual marking of a good 
                      satisfies country of origin marking requirements 
                      under Article 311 (Country of Origin Marking);  
 
                 (h)  whether an originating good qualifies as a good of a 
                      Party under Annex 300-B (Textile and Apparel Goods), 
                      Annex 302.2 (Tariff Elimination) or Chapter Seven 
                      (Agriculture and Sanitary and Phytosanitary 
                      Measures); 
 
                 (i)  whether a good is a qualifying good under Chapter 
                      Seven; or 
 
                 (j)  such other matters as the Parties may agree. 
 
  
            2.   Each Party shall adopt or maintain procedures for the 
            issuance of advance rulings, including a detailed description 
            of the information reasonably required to process an 
            application for a ruling. 
 
            3.   Each Party shall provide that its customs administration: 
 
                 (a)  may, at any time during the course of an evaluation 
                      of an application for an advance ruling, request 
                      supplemental information from the person requesting 
                      the ruling;  
 
                 (b)  shall, after it has obtained all necessary 
                      information from the person requesting an advance 
                      ruling, issue the ruling within the periods specified 
                      in the Uniform Regulations; and 
 
                 (c)  shall, where the advance ruling is unfavorable to the 
                      person requesting it, provide to that person a full 
                      explanation of the reasons for the ruling. 
 
            4.   Subject to paragraph 6, each Party shall apply an advance 
            ruling to importations into its territory of the good for which 
            the ruling was requested, beginning on the date of its issuance 
            or such later date as may be specified in the ruling. 
 
            5.   Each Party shall provide to any person requesting an 
            advance ruling the same treatment, including the same 
            interpretation and application of provisions of Chapter Four 
            regarding a determination of origin, as it provided to any 
            other person to whom it issued an advance ruling, provided that 
            the facts and circumstances are identical in all material 
            respects. 
 
            6.   The issuing Party may modify or revoke an advance ruling: 
 
                 (a)  if the ruling is based on an error 
 
                      (i)  of fact, 
 
                      (ii) in the tariff classification of a good or a 
                           material that is the subject of the ruling,  
 
                      (iii)     in the application of a regional value- 
                                content requirement under Chapter Four, 
 
                      (iv) in the application of the rules for determining 
                           whether a good qualifies as a good of a Party 
                           under Annex 300-B, 302.2 or Chapter Seven, 
 
                      (v)  in the application of the rules for determining 
                           whether a good is a qualifying good under 
                           Chapter Seven, or 
 
                      (vi) in the application of the rules for determining 
                           whether a good that re-enters its territory 
                           after the good has been exported from its 
                           territory to the territory of another Party for 
                           repair or alteration qualifies for duty-free 
                           treatment under Article 307; 
 
                 (b)  if the ruling is not in accordance with an 
                      interpretation agreed by the Parties regarding 
                      Chapter Three (National Treatment and Market Access 
                      for Goods) or Chapter Four; 
 
                 (c)  if there is a change in the material facts or 
                      circumstances on which the ruling is based;  
 
                 (d)  to conform with a modification of Chapter Three, 
                      Chapter Four, this Chapter, Chapter Seven, the 
                      Marking Rules or the Uniform Regulations; or 
 
                 (e)  to conform with a judicial decision or a change in 
                      its domestic law. 
 
            7.   Each Party shall provide that any modification or 
            revocation of an advance ruling shall be effective on the date 
            on which the modification or revocation is issued, or on such 
            later date as may be specified therein, and shall not be 
            applied to importations of a good that have occurred prior to 
            that date, unless the person to whom the advance ruling was 
            issued has not acted in accordance with its terms and 
            conditions.  
 
            8.   Notwithstanding paragraph 7, the issuing Party shall 
            postpone the effective date of such modification or revocation 
            for a period not exceeding 90 days where the person to whom the 
            advance ruling was issued has relied in good faith to its 
            detriment on that ruling. 
 
            9.   Each Party shall provide that where its customs 
            administration examines the regional value content of a good 
            for which it has issued an advance ruling pursuant to 
            subparagraph 1(c), (d) or (f), it shall evaluate whether: 
 
                 (a)  the exporter or producer has complied with the terms 
                      and conditions of the advance ruling; 
 
                 (b)  the exporter's or producer's operations are 
                      consistent with the material facts and circumstances 
                      on which the advance ruling is based; and 
 
                 (c)  the supporting data and computations used in applying 
                      the basis or method for calculating value or 
                      allocating cost were correct in all material 
                      respects. 
 
            10.  Each Party shall provide that where its customs 
            administration determines that any requirement in paragraph 9 
            has not been satisfied, it may modify or revoke the advance 
            ruling as the circumstances may warrant.  
 
            11.  Each Party shall provide that, where the person to whom an 
            advance ruling was issued demonstrates that it used reasonable 
            care and acted in good faith in presenting the facts and 
            circumstances on which the ruling was based, and where the 
            customs administration of a Party determines that the ruling 
            was based on incorrect information, the person to whom the 
            ruling was issued shall not be subject to penalties. 
 
            12.  Each Party shall provide that where it issues an advance 
            ruling to a person that has misrepresented or omitted material 
            facts or circumstances on which the ruling is based or has 
            failed to act in accordance with the terms and conditions of 
            the ruling, the Party may apply such measures as the 
            circumstances may warrant. 
 
 
               Section D - Review and Appeal of Origin Determinations and 
            Advance Rulings 
 
 
            Article 510:   Review and Appeal 
 
            1.   Each Party shall grant substantially the same rights of 
            review and appeal of determinations of origin and advance 
            rulings by its customs administration as it provides to 
            importers in its territory to any person: 
 
                 (a)  who completes and signs a Certificate of Origin for a 
                      good that has been the subject of a determination of 
                      origin;  
 
                 (b)  whose good has been the subject of a country of 
                      origin marking determination pursuant to Article 311 
                      (Country of Origin Marking); or 
 
                 (c)  who has received an advance ruling pursuant to 
                      Article 509(1). 
 
            2.   Further to Articles 1804 (Administrative Proceedings) and 
            1805 (Review and Appeal), each Party shall provide that the 
            rights of review and appeal referred to in paragraph 1 shall 
            include access to: 
 
                 (a)  at least one level of administrative review 
                      independent of the official or office responsible for 
                      the determination under review; and 
 
                 (b)  in accordance with its domestic law, judicial or 
                      quasi-judicial review of the determination or 
                      decision taken at the final level of administrative 
                      review. 
 
 
                            Section E - Uniform Regulations 
 
 
            Article 511:   Uniform Regulations 
 
            1.   The Parties shall establish, and implement through their 
            respective laws or regulations by January 1, 1994, Uniform 
            Regulations regarding the interpretation, application and 
            administration of Chapter Four, this Chapter and other matters 
            as may be agreed by the Parties. 
 
            2.   Each Party shall implement any modification of or addition 
            to the Uniform Regulations no later than 180 days after the 
            Parties agree on such modification or addition, or such other 
            period as the Parties may agree. 
 
 
                                Section F - Cooperation 
 
 
            Article 512:   Cooperation 
 
            1.   Each Party shall notify the other Parties of the following 
            determinations, measures and rulings, including to the greatest 
            extent practicable those that are prospective in application: 
 
                 (a)  a determination of origin issued as the result of a 
                      verification conducted pursuant to Article 506(1); 
 
                 (b)  a determination of origin that the Party is aware is 
                      contrary to 
 
                      (i)  a ruling issued by the customs administration of 
                           another Party with respect to the tariff 
                           classification or value of a good, or of 
                           materials used in the production of a good, or 
                           the reasonable allocation of costs where 
                           calculating the net cost of a good, that is the 
                           subject of a determination of origin, or 
 
                      (ii) consistent treatment given by the customs 
                           administration of another Party with respect to 
                           the tariff classification or value of a good, or 
                           of materials used in the production of a good, 
                           or the reasonable allocation of costs where 
                           calculating the net cost of a good, that is the 
                           subject of a determination of origin; 
 
                 (c)  a measure establishing or significantly modifying an 
                      administrative policy that is likely to affect future 
                      determinations of origin, country of origin marking 
                      requirements or determinations as to whether a good 
                      qualifies as a good of a Party under the Marking 
                      Rules; and 
 
                 (d)  an advance ruling, or a ruling modifying or revoking 
                      an advance ruling, pursuant to Article 509. 
 
            2.   The Parties shall cooperate:  
 
                 (a)  in the enforcement of their respective customs- 
                      related laws or regulations implementing this 
                      Agreement, and under any customs mutual assistance 
                      agreements or other customs-related agreement to 
                      which they are party;  
 
                 (b)  for purposes of the detection and prevention of 
                      unlawful transshipments of textile and apparel goods 
                      of a non-Party, in the enforcement of prohibitions or 
                      quantitative restrictions, including the verification 
                      by a Party, in accordance with the procedures set out 
                      in this Chapter, of the capacity for production of 
                      goods by an exporter or a producer in the territory 
                      of another Party, provided that the customs 
                      administration of the Party proposing to conduct the 
                      verification, prior to conducting the verification 
 
                      (i)  obtains the consent of the Party in whose 
                           territory the verification is to occur, and 
 
                      (ii) provides notification to the exporter or 
                           producer whose premises are to be visited, 
 
                      except that procedures for notifying the exporter or 
                      producer whose premises are to be visited shall be in 
                      accordance with such other procedures as the Parties 
                      may agree; 
  
                 (c)  to the extent practicable and for purposes of 
                      facilitating the flow of trade between them, in such 
                      customs-related matters as the collection and 
                      exchange of statistics regarding the importation and 
                      exportation of goods, the harmonization of 
                      documentation used in trade, the standardization of 
                      data elements, the acceptance of an international 
                      data syntax and the exchange of information; and 
 
                 (d)  to the extent practicable, in the storage and 
                      transmission of customs-related documentation. 
 
 
            Article 513:   Working Group and Customs Subgroup 
 
            1.   The Parties hereby establish a Working Group on Rules of 
            Origin, comprising representatives of each Party, to ensure: 
 
                 (a)  the effective implementation and administration of 
                      Articles 303 (Restriction on Drawback and Duty 
                      Deferral Programs), 308 (Most-Favored-Nation Rates of 
                      Duty on Certain Goods) and 311, Chapter Four, this 
                      Chapter, the Marking Rules and the Uniform 
                      Regulations; and 
 
                 (b)  the effective administration of the customs-related 
                      aspects of Chapter Three. 
 
            2.   The Working Group shall meet at least four times each year 
            and on the request of any Party. 
 
            3.   The Working Group shall: 
 
                 (a)  monitor the implementation and administration by the 
                      customs administrations of the Parties of Articles 
                      303, 308 and 311, Chapter Four, this Chapter, the 
                      Marking Rules and the Uniform Regulations to ensure 
                      their uniform interpretation; 
 
                 (b)  endeavor to agree, on the request of any Party, on 
                      any proposed modification of or addition to Article 
                      303, 308 or 311, Chapter Four, this Chapter, the 
                      Marking Rules or the Uniform Regulations;  
 
                 (c)  notify the Commission of any agreed modification of 
                      or addition to the Uniform Regulations;  
 
                 (d)  propose to the Commission any modification of or 
                      addition to Article 303, 308 or 311, Chapter Four, 
                      this Chapter, the Marking Rules, the Uniform 
                      Regulations or any other provision of this Agreement 
                      as may be required to conform with any change to the 
                      Harmonized System; and 
 
                 (e)  consider any other matter referred to it by a Party 
                      or by the Customs Subgroup established under 
                      paragraph 6. 
 
            4.   Each Party shall, to the greatest extent practicable, take 
            all necessary measures to implement any modification of or 
            addition to this Agreement within 180 days of the date on which 
            the Commission agrees on the modification or addition. 
 
            5.   If the Working Group fails to resolve a matter referred to 
            it pursuant to paragraph 3(e) within 30 days of such referral, 
            any Party may request a meeting of the Commission under Article 
            2007 (Commission - Good Offices, Conciliation and Mediation). 
 
            6.   The Working Group shall establish, and monitor the work 
            of, a Customs Subgroup, comprising representatives of each 
            Party.  The Subgroup shall meet at least four times each year 
            and on the request of any Party and shall: 
 
                 (a)  endeavor to agree on  
 
                      (i)  the uniform interpretation, application and 
                           administration of Articles 303, 308 and 311, 
                           Chapter Four, this Chapter, the Marking Rules 
                           and the Uniform Regulations, 
 
                      (ii) tariff classification and valuation matters 
                           relating to determinations of origin, 
 
                      (iii)     equivalent procedures and criteria for the 
                                request, approval, modification, revocation 
                                and implementation of advance rulings,  
 
                      (iv) revisions to the Certificate of Origin,  
 
                      (v)  any other matter referred to it by a Party, the 
                           Working Group or the Committee on Trade in Goods 
                           established under Article 316, and 
 
                      (vi) any other customs-related matter arising under 
                           this Agreement; 
 
                 (b)  consider 
 
                      (i)  the harmonization of customs-related automation 
                           requirements and documentation, and 

                      (ii) proposed customs-related administrative and 
                           operational changes that may affect the flow of 
                           trade between the Parties' territories; 
 
                 (c)  report periodically to the Working Group and notify 
                      it of any agreement reached under this paragraph; and 
 
 
                 (d)  refer to the Working Group any matter on which it has 
                      been unable to reach agreement within 60 days of 
                      referral of the matter to it pursuant to subparagraph 
                      (a)(v). 
 
            7.   Nothing in this Chapter shall be construed to prevent a 
            Party from issuing a determination of origin or an advance 
            ruling relating to a matter under consideration by the Working 
            Group or the Customs Subgroup or from taking such other action 
            as it considers necessary, pending a resolution of the matter 
            under this Agreement. 
 
 
            Article 514:   Definitions 
 
            For purposes of this Chapter: 
 
            commercial importation means the importation of a good into the 
            territory of any Party for the purpose of sale, or any 
            commercial, industrial or other like use; 
 
            customs administration means the competent authority that is 
            responsible under the law of a Party for the administration of 
            customs laws and regulations;  
 
            determination of origin means a determination as to whether a 
            good qualifies as an originating good in accordance with 
            Chapter Four; 
 
 
            exporter in the territory of a Party means an exporter located 
            in the territory of a Party and an exporter required under this 
            Chapter to maintain records in the territory of that Party 
            regarding exportations of a good; 
 
            identical goods means goods that are the same in all respects, 
            including physical characteristics, quality and reputation, 
            irrespective of minor differences in appearance that are not 
            relevant to a determination of origin of those goods under 
            Chapter Four; 
 
            importer in the territory of a Party means an importer located 
            in the territory of a Party and an importer required under this 
            Chapter to maintain records in the territory of that Party 
            regarding importations of a good; 
 
            intermediate material means "intermediate material" as defined 
            in Article 415; 
 
            Marking Rules means "Marking Rules" established under Annex 
            311; 
 
            material means "material" as defined in Article 415; 
 
            net cost of a good means "net cost of a good" as defined in 
            Article 415; 
 
            preferential tariff treatment means the duty rate applicable to 
            an originating good;  
 
            producer means "producer" as defined in Article 415; 
 
            production  means "production" as defined in Article 415; 
 
            transaction value means "transaction value" as defined in 
            Article 415; 
 
            Uniform Regulations means "Uniform Regulations" established 
            under Article 511;  
 
            used means "used" as defined in Article 415; and 
 
            value means value of a good or material for purposes of 
            calculating customs duties or for purposes of applying Chapter 
            Four.  

Title:Energy and Basic Petrochemicals -- Chapter Six
Author: White House
Document-Date: 29 Sept 1993
Content-Type: text/plain; CHARSET=US-ASCII
Content-Length:25625

                                      Chapter Six 
 
                            Energy and Basic Petrochemicals 
 
 
            Article 601:   Principles 
 
            1.   The Parties confirm their full respect for their 
            Constitutions. 
 
            2.   The Parties recognize that it is desirable to strengthen 
            the important role that trade in energy and basic petrochemical 
            goods plays in the free trade area and to enhance this role 
            through sustained and gradual liberalization. 
 
            3.   The Parties recognize the importance of having viable and 
            internationally competitive energy and petrochemical sectors to 
            further their individual national interests. 
 
 
            Article 602:   Scope and Coverage 
 
            1.   This Chapter applies to measures relating to energy and 
            basic petrochemical goods originating in the territories of the 
            Parties and to measures relating to investment and to the 
            cross-border trade in services associated with such goods, as 
            set forth in this Chapter. 
 
            2.   For purposes of this Chapter, energy and basic 
            petrochemical goods refer to those goods classified under the 
            Harmonized System as: 
 
                 (a)  subheading 2612.10; 
 
                 (b)  headings 27.01 through 27.06; 
 
                 (c)  subheading 2707.50; 
 
                 (d)  subheading 2707.99 (only with respect to solvent 
                      naphtha, rubber extender oils and carbon black 
                      feedstocks); 
 
                 (e)  headings 27.08 and 27.09; 
 
                 (f)  heading 27.10 (except for normal paraffin mixtures in 
                      the range of C9 to C15); 
 
                 (g)  heading 27.11 (except for ethylene, propylene, 
                      butylene and butadiene in purities over 50 percent); 
 
                 (h)  headings 27.12 through 27.16; 
 
                 (i)  subheadings 2844.10 through 2844.50 (only with 
                      respect to uranium compounds classified under those 
                      subheadings); 
 
                 (j)  subheading 2845.10; and 
 
                 (k)  subheading 2901.10 (only with respect to ethane, 
                      butanes, pentanes, hexanes, and heptanes). 
 
            3.   Except as specified in Annex 602.3, energy and 
            petrochemical goods and activities shall be governed by the 
            provisions of this Agreement.  
 
 
            Article 603:   Import and Export Restrictions 
 
            1.   Subject to the further rights and obligations of this 
            Agreement, the Parties incorporate the provisions of the 
            General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT), with respect to 
            prohibitions or restrictions on trade in energy and basic 
            petrochemical goods.  The Parties agree that this language does 
            not incorporate their respective protocols of provisional 
            application to the GATT.  
 
            2.   The Parties understand that the provisions of the GATT 
            incorporated in paragraph 1 prohibit, in any circumstances in 
            which any other form of quantitative restriction is prohibited, 
            minimum or maximum export-price requirements and, except as 
            permitted in enforcement of countervailing and antidumping 
            orders and undertakings, minimum or maximum import-price 
            requirements. 
 
            3.   In circumstances where a Party adopts or maintains a 
            restriction on importation from or exportation to a non-Party 
            of an energy or basic petrochemical good, nothing in this 
            Agreement shall be construed to prevent the Party from: 
 
                 (a)  limiting or prohibiting the importation from the 
                      territory of any Party of such energy or basic 
                      petrochemical good of the non-Party; or 
 
                 (b)  requiring as a condition of export of such energy or 
                      basic petrochemical good of the Party to the 
                      territory of any other Party that the good be 
                      consumed within the territory of the other Party. 
 
            4.   In the event that a Party adopts or maintains a 
            restriction on imports of an energy or basic petrochemical good 
            from non-Party countries, the Parties, on request of any Party, 
            shall consult with a view to avoiding undue interference with 
            or distortion of pricing, marketing and distribution 
            arrangements in another Party. 
 
            5.   Each Party may administer a system of import and export 
            licensing for energy or  basic petrochemical goods provided 
            that such system is operated in a manner consistent with the 
            provisions of this Agreement, including paragraph 1 and Article 
            1502 (Monopolies and State Enterprises). 
 
            6.   This Article is subject to the reservations set out in 
            Annex 603.6. 
 
 
            Article 604:   Export Taxes 
 
                 No Party may adopt or maintain any duty, tax or other 
            charge on the export of any energy or basic petrochemical good 
            to the territory of another Party, unless such duty, tax or 
            charge is adopted or maintained on: 
 
                 (a)  exports of any such good to the territory of all 
                      other Parties; and 
 
                 (b)  any such good when destined for domestic consumption. 
 
 
            Article 605:   Other Export Measures 
 
                 Subject to Annex 605, a Party may adopt or maintain a 
            restriction otherwise justified under Articles XI:2(a) or 
            XX(g), (i) or (j) of the GATT with respect to the export of an 
            energy or basic petrochemical good to the territory of another 
            Party, only if: 
 
                 (a)  the restriction does not reduce the proportion of the 
                      total export shipments of the specific energy or 
                      basic petrochemical good made available to that other 
                      Party relative to the total supply of that good of 
                      the Party maintaining the restriction as compared to 
                      the proportion prevailing in the most recent 36-month 
                      period for which data are available prior to the 
                      imposition of the measure, or in such other 
                      representative period on which the Parties may agree; 
 
                 (b)  the Party does not impose a higher price for exports 
                      of an energy or basic petrochemical good to that 
                      other Party than the price charged for such good when 
                      consumed domestically, by means of any measure such 
                      as licenses, fees, taxation and minimum price 
                      requirements.  The foregoing provision does not apply 
                      to a higher price that may result from a measure 
                      taken pursuant to subparagraph (a) that only 
                      restricts the volume of exports; and  
 
                 (c)  the restriction does not require the disruption of 
                      normal channels of supply to that other Party or 
                      normal proportions among specific energy or basic 
                      petrochemical goods supplied to that other Party, 
                      such as, for example, between crude oil and refined 
                      products and among different categories of crude oil 
                      and of refined products. 
 
 
            Article 606:   Energy Regulatory Measures 
 
            1.   The Parties recognize that energy regulatory measures are 
            subject to the disciplines of: 
 
                 (a)  national treatment, as provided in Article 301; 
 
                 (b)  import and export restrictions, as provided in 
                      Article 603; and 
 
                 (c)  export taxes, as provided in Article 604. 
 
            2.   Each Party shall seek to ensure that in the application of 
            any energy regulatory measure, energy regulatory bodies within 
            its territory avoid disruption of contractual relationships to 
            the maximum extent practicable, and provide for orderly and 
            equitable implementation appropriate to such measures. 
 
 
            Article 607:   National Security Measures 
 
                 Subject to Annex 607, no Party may adopt or maintain a 
            measure restricting imports of an energy or basic petrochemical 
            good from, or exports of an energy or basic petrochemical good 
            to, another Party under Article XXI of the GATT or under 
            Article 2102 (National Security), except to the extent 
            necessary to: 
 
                 (a)  supply a military establishment of a Party or enable 
                      fulfillment of a critical defense contract of a 
                      Party; 
 
                 (b)  respond to a situation of armed conflict involving 
                      the Party taking the measure; 
 
                 (c)  implement national policies or international 
                      agreements relating to the non-proliferation of 
                      nuclear weapons or other nuclear explosive devices; 
                      or 
 
                 (d)  respond to direct threats of disruption in the supply 
                      of nuclear materials for defense purposes. 
 
 
            Article 608:   Miscellaneous Provisions 
 
            1.   The Parties agree to allow existing or future incentives 
            for oil and gas exploration, development and related activities 
            in order to maintain the reserve base for these energy 
            resources. 
 
            2.   Annex 608.2 applies only to the Parties specified in that 
            Annex with respect to other agreements relating to trade in 
            energy goods. 
 
 
            Article 609:   Definitions 
 
            For purposes of this Chapter: 
 
            consumed means transformed so as to qualify under the rules of 
            origin set out in Chapter Four (Rules of Origin), or actually 
            consumed; 
 
            cross-border trade in services means "cross-border trade in 
            services" as defined in Article 1213 (Cross-Border Trade in 
            Services - Definitions); 
 
            energy regulatory measure means any measure by federal or sub- 
            federal entities that directly affects the transportation, 
            transmission or distribution, purchase or sale, of an energy or 
            basic petrochemical good; 
 
            enterprise means "enterprise" as defined in Article 1139 
            (Investment - Definitions); 
 
            enterprise of a Party means "enterprise of a Party" as defined 
            in Article 1139; 
 
            facility for independent power production means a facility that 
            is used for the generation of electric energy exclusively for 
            sale to an electric utility for further resale; 
 
            first hand sale refers to the first commercial transaction 
            affecting the good in question; 
 
            investment means investment as defined in Article 1139; 
            restriction means any limitation, whether made effective 
            through quotas, licenses, permits, minimum or maximum price 
            requirements or any other means;  
 
            total export shipments means the total shipments from total 
            supply to users located in the territory of the other Party; 
            and 
 
            total supply means shipments to domestic users and foreign 
            users from: 
 
                 (a)  domestic production; 
 
                 (b)  domestic inventory; and 
 
                 (c)  other imports, as appropriate. 
 
                                      Annex 602.3 
 
                          Reservations and Special Provisions 
 
 
            Reservations 
 
            1.   The Mexican State reserves to itself the following 
            strategic activities, including investment in such activities 
            and the provision of services in such activities: 
 
                 (a)  exploration and exploitation of crude oil and natural 
                      gas; refining or processing of crude oil and natural 
                      gas; and production of artificial gas, basic 
                      petrochemicals and their feedstocks and pipelines;  
 
                 (b)  foreign trade; transportation, storage and 
                      distribution, up to and including the first hand 
                      sales of the following goods:  
 
                      (i)  crude oil,  
 
                      (ii) natural and artificial gas,  
 
                      (iii)     goods covered by this Chapter obtained from 
                                the refining or processing of crude oil and 
                                natural gas, and  
 
                      (iv) basic petrochemicals; 
 
                 (c)  the supply of electricity as a public service in 
                      Mexico, including, except as provided in paragraph 5, 
                      the generation, transmission, transformation, 
                      distribution and sale of electricity; and 
 
                 (d)  exploration, exploitation and processing of 
                      radioactive minerals, the nuclear fuel cycle, the 
                      generation of nuclear energy, the transportation and 
                      storage of nuclear waste, the use and reprocessing of 
                      nuclear fuel and the regulation of their applications 
                      for other purposes and the production of heavy water. 
               
            In the event of an inconsistency between this paragraph and 
            another provision of this Agreement, this paragraph shall 
            prevail to the extent of that inconsistency. 
 
            2.   Pursuant to Article 1101(2), private investment is not 
            permitted in the activities listed in paragraph 1.  Chapter 
 
                                Annex 602.3                                 
 
            Twelve (Cross-Border Trade in Services) shall only apply to 
            activities involving the provision of services covered in 
            paragraph 1 when Mexico permits a contract to be granted in 
            respect of such activities and only to the extent of that 
            contract. 
 
            Trade in Natural Gas and Basic Petrochemicals 
 
            3.   Where end-users and suppliers of natural gas or basic 
            petrochemical goods consider that cross-border trade in such 
            goods may be in their interests, each Party shall permit such 
            end-users and suppliers, and any state enterprise of that Party 
            as may be required under its domestic law, to negotiate supply 
            contracts. 
 
                 Each Party shall leave the modalities of the 
            implementation of any such contract to the end-users, 
            suppliers, and any state enterprise of the Party as may be 
            required under its domestic law, which may take the form of 
            individual contracts between the state enterprise and each of 
            the other entities.  Such contracts may be subject to 
            regulatory approval. 
 
            Performance Clauses  
 
            4.   Each Party shall allow its state enterprises to negotiate 
            performance clauses in their service contracts. 
 
            Activities and Investment in Electricity Generation Facilities 
 
            5.   (a)  Production for Own Use 
 
                      An enterprise of another Party may acquire, 
                      establish, and/or operate an electrical generating 
                      facility in Mexico to meet the enterprise's own 
                      supply needs.  Electricity generated in excess of 
                      such needs must be sold to the Federal Electricity 
                      Commission (Comisi n Federal de Electricidad) (CFE) 
                      and CFE shall purchase such electricity under terms 
                      and conditions agreed to by CFE and the enterprise. 
 
                 (b)  Co-generation 
 
                      An enterprise of another Party may acquire, 
                      establish, and/or operate a co-generation facility in 
                      Mexico that generates electricity using heat, steam 
                      or other energy sources associated with an industrial 
                      process.  Owners of the industrial facility need not 
 
                               Annex 602.3                                  

                      be the owners of the co-generating facility.  
                      Electricity generated in excess of the industrial 
                      facility's supply requirements must be sold to CFE 
                      and CFE shall purchase such electricity under terms 
                      and conditions agreed to by CFE and the enterprise. 
 
                 (c)  Independent Power Production 
 
                      An enterprise of another Party may acquire, 
                      establish, and/or operate an electricity generating 
                      facility for independent power production (IPP) in 
                      Mexico.  Electricity generated by such a facility for 
                      sale in Mexico shall be sold to CFE and CFE shall 
                      purchase such electricity under terms and conditions 
                      agreed to by CFE and the enterprise.  Where an IPP 
                      located in Mexico and an electric utility of another 
                      Party consider that cross-border trade in electricity 
                      may be in their interests, each relevant Party shall 
                      permit these entities and CFE to negotiate terms and 
                      conditions of power purchase and power sale 
                      contracts.  The modalities of implementing such 
                      supply contracts are left to the end users, suppliers 
                      and CFE and may take the form of individual contracts 
                      between CFE and each of the other entities.  Each 
                      relevant Party shall determine whether such contracts 
                      are subject to regulatory approval. 
 
                                      Annex 603.6 
 
                                Exception to Article 603 
 
 
                 For only those goods listed below, Mexico may restrict the 
            granting of import and export licenses for the sole purpose of 
            reserving foreign trade in these goods to itself. 
 
            2707.50   Other aromatic hydrocarbon mixtures of which 65 
                      percent or more by volume (including losses) distills 
                      at 250  C by the ASTM D 86 method. 
 
            2707.99   Rubber extender oils, solvent naphtha and carbon 
                      black feedstocks only. 
 
            2709      Petroleum oils and oils obtained from bituminous 
                      minerals, crude. 
 
            2710      Aviation gasoline; gasoline and motor fuel blending 
                      stocks (except aviation gasoline) and reformates when 
                      used as motor fuel blending stocks; kerosene; gas oil 
                      and diesel oil; petroleum ether; fuel oil; paraffinic 
                      oils other than for lubricating purposes; pentanes; 
                      carbon black feedstocks; hexanes; heptanes and 
                      naphthas. 
 
            2711      Petroleum gases and other gaseous hydrocarbons other 
                      than: ethylene, propylene, butylene and butadiene, in 
                      purities over 50 percent. 
 
            2712.90   Only paraffin wax containing by weight more than 0.75 
                      percent of oil, in bulk (Mexico classifies these 
                      goods under HS 2712.90.02) and only when imported to 
                      be used for further refining. 
 
            2713.11   Petroleum coke not calcined. 
 
            2713.20   Petroleum bitumen (except when used for road 
                      surfacing purposes under HS 2713.20.01). 
 
            2713.90   Other residues of petroleum oils or of oils obtained 
                      from bituminous minerals. 
 
                              Annex 603.6                                   

            2714      Bitumen and asphalt, natural; bituminous or oil shale 
                      and tar sands, asphaltites and asphaltic rocks 
                      (except when used for road surfacing purposes under 
                      HS 2714.90.01). 
 
            2901.10   Ethane, butanes, pentanes, hexanes, and heptanes 
                      only. 
 
                                       Annex 605 
 
                                Exception to Article 605 
 
 
                 Notwithstanding any other provision of this Chapter, the 
            provisions of Article 605 shall not apply as between the other 
            Parties and Mexico. 
 
                                       Annex 607                            
  
                                   National Security 
 
 
            1.   Article 607 shall impose no obligations and confer no 
            rights on Mexico. 
 
            2.   Article 2102 (National Security) shall apply as between 
            Mexico and the other Parties.  
  
                                      Annex 608.2 
 
                                    Other Agreements 
 
 
            1.   Canada and the United States shall act in accordance with 
            the terms of Annexes 902.5 and 905.2 of the Canada - United 
            States Free Trade Agreement, which are hereby incorporated into 
            and made a part of this Agreement for such purpose.  This 
            paragraph shall impose no obligations and confer no rights on 
            Mexico. 
 
            2.   Canada and the United States intend no inconsistency 
            between this Chapter and the Agreement on an International 
            Energy Program (IEP).  In the event of any inconsistency 
            between the IEP and this Chapter, the IEP shall prevail as 
            between Canada and the United States to the extent of that 
            inconsistency. 

 Title:Agriculture and Sanitary and Phytosanitary Measures -- Chap. 7
Author: White House
Document-Date: 29 Sept 1993
Content-Type: text/plain; CHARSET=US-ASCII
Content-Length:129142
 
                                     Chapter Seven 
 
                  Agriculture and Sanitary and Phytosanitary Measures 
 
 
                                Section A - Agriculture 
 
            Article 701:    Scope and Coverage 
 
            1.   This Section applies to measures adopted or maintained by 
            a Party relating to agricultural trade. 
 
            2.   In the event of any inconsistency between this Section and 
            another provision of this Agreement, this Section shall prevail 
            to the extent of the inconsistency. 
 
 
            Article 702:    International Obligations 
 
            1.   Annex 702.1 applies to the Parties specified in that Annex 
            with respect to agricultural trade under certain agreements 
            between them. 
 
            2.   Prior to adopting pursuant to an intergovernmental 
            commodity agreement, a measure that may affect trade in an 
            agricultural good between the Parties, the Party proposing to 
            adopt the measure shall consult with the other Parties with a 
            view to avoiding nullification or impairment of a concession 
            granted by that Party in its Schedule to Annex 302.2 (Tariff 
            Elimination). 
 
            3.   Annex 702.3 applies to the Parties specified in that Annex 
            with respect to measures adopted or maintained pursuant to an 
            intergovernmental coffee agreement. 
 
 
            Article 703:    Market Access 
 
            1.   The Parties shall work together to improve access to their 
            respective markets through the reduction or elimination of 
            import barriers to trade between them in agricultural goods. 
 
            Customs Duties, Quantitative Restrictions, and Agricultural 
            Grading and Marketing Standards  
 
            2.   Annex 703.2 applies to the Parties specified in that Annex 
            with respect to customs duties and quantitative restrictions, 
            trade in sugar and syrup goods, and agricultural grading and 
            marketing standards. 
 
            Special Safeguard Provisions 
 
            3.   Each Party may, in accordance with its Schedule to Annex 
            302.2, adopt or maintain a special safeguard in the form of a 
            tariff rate quota on an agricultural good listed in its Section 
            of Annex 703.3.  Notwithstanding Article 302.2, a Party may not 
            apply an over-quota tariff rate under a special safeguard that 
            exceeds the lesser of: 
 
                 (a)  the most-favored-nation (MFN) rate as of July 1, 
                      1991; and  
 
                 (b)  the prevailing MFN rate. 
 
            4.   No Party may, with respect to the same good and the same 
            country, at the same time: 
 
                 (a)  apply an over-quota tariff rate under paragraph 3; 
                      and  
 
                 (b)  take an emergency action covered by Chapter Eight 
                      (Emergency Action). 
 
 
            Article 704:    Domestic Support 
 
                 The Parties recognize that domestic support measures can 
            be of crucial importance to their agricultural sectors but may 
            also have trade distorting and production effects and that 
            domestic support reduction commitments may result from 
            agricultural multilateral trade negotiations under the General 
            Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT).  Accordingly, where a 
            Party supports its agricultural producers, that Party should 
            endeavor to work toward domestic support measures that: 
 
                 (a)  have minimal or no trade distorting or production 
                      effects; or 
 
                 (b)  are exempt from any applicable domestic support 
                      reduction commitments that may be negotiated under 
                      the GATT. 
 
            The Parties further recognize that a Party may change its 
            domestic support measures, including those that may be subject 
            to reduction commitments, at the Party's discretion, subject to 
            its rights and obligations under the GATT. 
 
            Article 705:    Export Subsidies 
 
            1.   The Parties share the objective of the multilateral 
            elimination of export subsidies for agricultural goods and 
            shall cooperate in an effort to achieve an agreement under the 
            GATT to eliminate those subsidies. 
 
            2.   The Parties recognize that export subsidies for 
            agricultural goods may prejudice the interests of importing and 
            exporting Parties and, in particular, may disrupt the markets 
            of importing Parties.  Accordingly, in addition to the rights 
            and obligations of the Parties specified in Annex 702.1, the 
            Parties affirm that it is inappropriate for a Party to provide 
            an export subsidy for an agricultural good exported to the 
            territory of another Party where there are no other subsidized 
            imports of that good into the territory of that other Party. 
 
            3.   Except as provided in Annex 702.1, where an exporting 
            Party considers that a non-Party is exporting an agricultural 
            good to the territory of another Party with the benefit of 
            export subsidies, the importing Party shall, on written request 
            of the exporting Party, consult with the exporting Party with a 
            view to agreeing on specific measures that the importing Party 
            may adopt to counter the effect of any such subsidized imports. 

            If the importing Party adopts the agreed-upon measures, the 
            exporting Party shall refrain from applying, or immediately 
            cease to apply, any export subsidy to exports of such good to 
            the territory of the importing Party. 
 
            4.   Except as provided in Annex 702.1, an exporting Party 
            shall deliver written notice to the importing Party at least 
            three days, excluding weekends, prior to adopting an export 
            subsidy measure on an agricultural good exported to the 
            territory of another Party.  The exporting Party shall consult 
            with the importing Party within 72 hours of receipt of the 
            importing Party's written request, with a view to eliminating 
            the subsidy or minimizing any adverse impact on the market of 
            the importing Party for that good.  The importing Party shall, 
            when requesting consultations with the exporting Party, at the 
            same time, deliver written notice to a third Party of the 
            request.  A third Party may request to participate in such 
            consultations. 
 
            5.   Each Party shall take into account the interests of the 
            other Parties in the use of any export subsidy on an 
            agricultural good, recognizing that such subsidies may have 
            prejudicial effects on the interests of the other Parties. 
 
            6.   The Parties hereby establish a Working Group on 
            Agricultural Subsidies, comprising representatives of each 
            Party, which shall meet at least semi-annually or as the 
            Parties may otherwise agree, to work toward elimination of all 
            export subsidies affecting agricultural trade between the 
            Parties.  The functions of the Working Group shall include: 
 
                 (a)  monitoring the volume and price of imports into the 
                      territory of any Party of agricultural goods that 
                      have benefitted from export subsidies; 
 
                 (b)  providing a forum for the Parties to develop mutually 
                      acceptable criteria and procedures for reaching 
                      agreement on the limitation or elimination of export 
                      subsidies for imports of agricultural goods into the 
                      territories of the Parties; and 
 
                 (c)  reporting annually to the Committee on Agricultural 
                      Trade, established under Article 706, on the 
                      implementation of this Article. 
 
            7.   Notwithstanding any other provision of this Article: 
 
                 (a)  if the importing and exporting Parties agree to an 
                      export subsidy for an agricultural good exported to 
                      the territory of the importing Party, the exporting 
                      Party or Parties may adopt or maintain such subsidy; 
                      and 
 
                 (b)  each Party retains its rights to apply countervailing 
                      duties to subsidized imports of agricultural goods 
                      from the territory of a Party or non-Party. 
 
 
            Article 706:    Committee on Agricultural Trade 
 
            1.   The Parties hereby establish a Committee on Agricultural 
            Trade, comprising representatives of each Party. 
 
            2.   The Committee's functions shall include: 
 
                 (a)  monitoring and promoting cooperation on the 
                      implementation and administration of this Section; 
 
                 (b)  providing a forum for the Parties to consult on 
                      issues related to this Section at least semi-annually 
                      and as the Parties may otherwise agree; and 
 
                 (c)  reporting annually to the Commission on the 
                      implementation of this Section. 
 
 
            Article 707:    Advisory Committee on Private Commercial 
                            Disputes regarding Agricultural Goods 
 
                 The Committee shall establish an Advisory Committee on 
            Private Commercial Disputes regarding Agricultural Goods, 
            comprising persons with expertise or experience in the 
            resolution of private commercial disputes in agricultural 
            trade.  The Advisory Committee shall report and provide 
            recommendations to the Committee for the development of systems 
            in the territory of each Party to achieve the prompt and 
            effective resolution of such disputes, taking into account any 
            special circumstance, including the perishability of certain 
            agricultural goods. 
 
 
            Article 708:    Definitions 
 
            For purposes of this Section: 
 
            agricultural good means a good provided for in any of the 
            following: 
 
                 (a)  Harmonized System (HS) Chapters 1 through 24 (other 
                      than a fish or fish product); or 
 
                 (b)  HS subheading       2905.43        (manitol) 
                      HS subheading       2905.44        (sorbitol) 
                      HS heading          33.01               (essential 
                                                              oils) 
                      HS headings         35.01 to 35.05      (albuminoidal 
                                                              substances, 
                                                              modified 
                                                              starches, 
                                                              glues) 
                      HS subheading       3809.10        (finishing agents) 
                      HS subheading       3823.60        (sorbitol n.e.p.) 
                      HS headings         41.01 to 41.03      (hides and 
                                                              skins) 
                      HS heading          43.01               (raw 
                                                              furskins) 
                      HS headings         50.01 to 50.03      (raw silk and 
                                                              silk waste) 
                      HS headings         51.01 to 51.03      (wool and 
                                                              animal hair) 
                      HS headings         52.01 to 52.03      (raw cotton, 
                                                              cotton waste 
                                                              and cotton 
                                                              carded or 
                                                              combed) 
                      HS heading          53.01               (raw flax) 
                      HS heading          53.02               (raw hemp) 
 
            (For purposes of reference only, descriptions are provided next 
            to the corresponding tariff provision.) 
 
            customs duty means "customs duty" as defined in Article 318 
            (National Treatment and Market Access for Goods - Definitions); 
 
            duty-free means "duty-free" as defined in Article 318; 
 
            fish or fish product means a fish or crustacean, mollusc or 
            other aquatic invertebrate, marine mammal, or a product thereof 
            provided for in any of the following: 
 
                      HS Chapter          03             (fish and 
                                                         crustaceans, 
                                                         molluscs and other 
                                                         aquatic 
                                                         invertebrates) 
                      HS heading          05.07               (tortoise- 
                                                              shell, 
                                                              whalebone and 
                                                              whalebone 
                                                              hair and 
                                                              those fish or 
                                                              crustaceans, 
                                                              molluscs or 
                                                              other aquatic 
                                                              invertebrates 
                                                              , marine 
                                                              mammals, and 
                                                              their 
                                                              products 
                                                              within this 
                                                              heading) 
                      HS heading          05.08               (coral and 
                                                              similar 
                                                              materials) 
                      HS heading          05.09               (natural 
                                                              sponges of 
                                                              animal 
                                                              origin) 
                      HS heading          05.11               (products of 
                                                              fish or 
                                                              crustaceans, 
                                                              molluscs or 
                                                              other aquatic 
                                                              invertebrates 
                                                              ; dead 
                                                              animals of 
                                                              Chapter 3) 
                      HS heading          15.04               (fats and 
                                                              oils and 
                                                              their 
                                                              fractions, of 
                                                              fish or 
                                                              marine 
                                                              mammals) 
                      HS heading          16.03               ("non-meat" 
                                                              extracts and 
                                                              juices) 
                      HS heading          16.04               (prepared or 
                                                              preserved 
                                                              fish) 
                      HS heading          16.05               (prepared 
                                                              preserved 
                                                              crustaceans, 
                                                              molluscs and 
                                                              other aquatic 
                                                              invertebrates 
                                                              ); 
                      HS subheading       2301.20        (flours, meals, 
                                                         pellets of fish) 
 
            (For purposes of reference only, descriptions are provided next 
            to the corresponding tariff provision.) 
 
            material means "material" as defined in Article 415 (Rules of 
            Origin - Definitions); 
 
            over-quota tariff rate means the rate of customs duty to be 
            applied to quantities in excess of the quantity specified under 
            a tariff rate quota; 
              
            sugar or syrup good means "sugar or syrup good" as defined in 
            Annex 703.2; 
 
            tariff item means a "tariff item" as defined in Annex 401; and 
 
            tariff rate quota means a mechanism that provides for the 
            application of a customs duty at a certain rate to imports of a 
            particular good up to a specified quantity (in-quota quantity), 
            and at a different rate to imports of that good that exceed 
            that quantity. 
  
                                    Annex 702.1 
 
                           Incorporation of Trade Provisions 
 
 
            1.   Articles 701, 702, 704, 705, 706, 707, 710 and 711 of the 
            Canada - United States Free Trade Agreement apply, as between 
            Canada and the United States, which Articles are hereby 
            incorporated into and made a part of this Agreement. 
 
            2.   The definitions of the terms specified in Article 711 of 
            the Canada - United States Free Trade Agreement shall apply to 
            the Articles incorporated by paragraph 1. 
 
            3.   For purposes of this incorporation, any reference to 
            Chapter Eighteen of the Canada -United States Free Trade 
            Agreement shall be deemed to be a reference to Chapter Twenty 
            (Institutional Arrangements and Dispute Settlement Procedures) 
            of this Agreement. 
 
            4.   The Parties understand that Article 710 of the Canada - 
            United States Free Trade Agreement incorporates the GATT rights 
            and obligations of Canada and the United States with respect to 
            agricultural, food, beverage and certain related goods, 
            including exemptions by virtue of paragraph (1)(b) of the 
            Protocol of Provisional Application of the GATT and waivers 
            granted under Article XXV of the GATT. 
 
                                      Annex 702.3 
 
                           Intergovernmental Coffee Agreement 
 
 
                 Notwithstanding Article 2101 (General Exceptions), neither 
            Canada nor Mexico may adopt or maintain a measure, pursuant to 
            an intergovernmental coffee agreement, that restricts trade in 
            coffee between them. 
                          
 
                                      Annex 703.2 
 
                                     Market Access 
 
                        Section A - Mexico and the United States 
 
            1.   This Section applies only as between Mexico and the United 
            States. 
 
            Customs Duties and Quantitative Restrictions 
 
            2.   With respect to agricultural goods, Article 309(1) and (2) 
            (Import and Export Restrictions) applies only to qualifying 
            goods. 
 
            3.   Each Party waives its rights under Article XI:2(c) of the 
            GATT, and those rights as incorporated by Article 309, 
            regarding any measure adopted or maintained with respect to the 
            importation of qualifying goods. 
 
            4.   Except with respect to a good set out in Section B or C of 
            Annex 703.3 or Appendix 703.2.A.4, where a Party applies an 
            over-quota tariff rate to a qualifying good pursuant to a 
            tariff rate quota set out in its Schedule to Annex 302.2, or 
            increases a customs duty for a sugar or syrup good to a rate, 
            in accordance with paragraph 18, that exceeds the rate of 
            customs duty for that good set out in its GATT Schedule of 
            Tariff Concessions as of July 1, 1991, the other Party waives 
            its rights under the GATT with respect to the application of 
            that rate of customs duty. 
 
            5.   Notwithstanding Article 302(2) (Tariff Elimination), where 
            an agreement resulting from agricultural multilateral trade 
            negotiations under the GATT enters into force with respect to a 
            Party pursuant to which it has agreed to convert a prohibition 
            or restriction on its importation of an agricultural good into 
            a tariff rate quota or a customs duty, that Party may not apply 
            to such good that is a qualifying good an over-quota tariff 
            rate that is higher than the lower of the over-quota tariff 
            rate set out in: 
 
                 (a)  its Schedule to Annex 302.2, and 
 
                 (b)  that agreement, 
 
            and paragraph 4 shall no longer apply to the other Party with 
            respect to that good. 
 
                              Annex 703.2                                   
 
            6.   Each Party may count the in-quota quantity under a tariff 
            rate quota applied to a qualifying good in accordance with its 
            Schedule to Annex 302.2 toward the satisfaction of commitments 
            regarding an in-quota quantity of a tariff rate quota or level 
            of access under a restriction on the importation of that good: 
 
                 (a)  that have been agreed under the GATT, including as 
                      set out in its GATT Schedule of Tariff Concessions; 
                      or  
 
                 (b)  undertaken by the Party as a result of any agreement 
                      resulting from agricultural multilateral trade 
                      negotiations under the GATT. 
 
            7.   Neither Party may count toward the satisfaction of a 
            commitment regarding an in-quota quantity of a tariff rate 
            quota in its Schedule to Annex 302.2 an agricultural good 
            admitted or entered into a maquiladora or foreign-trade zone 
            and re-exported, including subsequent to processing. 
 
            8.   The United States shall not adopt or maintain, with 
            respect to the importation of an agricultural qualifying good, 
            any fee applied pursuant to section 22 of the U.S. Agricultural 
            Adjustment Act. 
 
            9.   Neither Party may seek a voluntary restraint agreement 
            from the other Party with respect to the exportation of meat 
            that is a qualifying good. 
 
            10.  Notwithstanding Chapter Four (Rules of Origin), for 
            purposes of applying a rate of customs duty to a good, the 
            United States may consider as if it were non-originating a good 
            provided for in: 
 
                 (a)  heading 12.02 that is exported from the territory of 
                      Mexico, if the good is not wholly obtained in the 
                      territory of Mexico; 
 
                 (b)  subheading 2008.11 that is exported from the 
                      territory of Mexico, if any material provided for in 
                      heading 12.02 used in the production of that good is 
                      not wholly obtained in the territory of Mexico; or 
 
                 (c)  U.S. tariff item 1806.10.42 or 2106.90.12 that is 
                      exported from the territory of Mexico, if any 
                      material provided for in HS heading 1701.99 used in 
                      the production of that good is not a qualifying good. 
 
                                    Annex 703.2                             
 
            11.  Notwithstanding Chapter Four, for purposes of applying a 
            rate of customs duty to a good, Mexico may consider as if it 
            were non-originating a good provided for in: 
 
                 (a)  heading 12.02 that is exported from the territory of 
                      the United States, if that good is not wholly 
                      obtained in the territory of the United States; 
 
                 (b)  subheading 2008.11 that is exported from the 
                      territory of the United States, if any material 
                      provided for in heading 12.02 used in the production 
                      of that good is not wholly obtained in the territory 
                      of the United States; or 
 
                 (c)  Mexican tariff item 1806.10.01 (except those with a 
                      sugar content less than 90 percent) or 2106.90.05 
                      (except those that contain added flavoring matter) 
                      that is exported from the territory of the United 
                      States, if any material provided for in HS subheading 
                      1701.99 used in the production of that good is not a 
                      qualifying good. 
 
            Restriction on Same-Condition Substitution Duty Drawback 
 
            12.  Beginning on the date of entry into force of this 
            Agreement, neither Mexico nor the United States may refund the 
            amount of customs duties paid, or waive or reduce the amount of 
            customs duties owed, on any agricultural good imported into its 
            territory that is substituted for an identical or similar good 
            that is subsequently exported to the territory of the other 
            Party. 
 
            Trade in Sugar and Syrup Goods 
 
            13.  The Parties shall consult by July 1 of each of the first 
            14 years beginning with 1994 to determine jointly, in 
            accordance with Appendix 703.2.A.13, whether, and if so, by 
            what quantity either Party: 
 
                 (a)  is projected to be a net surplus producer of sugar in 
                      the next marketing year; and 
 
                 (b)  has been a net surplus producer in any marketing year 
                      beginning after the date of entry into force of this 
                      Agreement, including the current marketing year. 
 
            14.  For each of the first 14 marketing years beginning after 
            the date of entry into force of this Agreement, each Party 
 
                                    Annex 703.2                             
  
            shall accord duty-free treatment to a quantity of sugar and 
            syrup goods that are qualifying goods not less than the 
            greatest of: 
 
                 (a)   7,258 metric tons raw value;  
 
                 (b)  the quota allocated by the United States for a non- 
                      Party within the category designated "other specified 
                      countries and areas" under paragraph (b)(i) of 
                      additional U.S. note 3 to chapter 17 of the 
                      Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States; and 
 
                 (c)  subject to paragraph 15, the other Party's projected 
                      net production surplus for that marketing year, as 
                      determined under paragraph 13 and adjusted in 
                      accordance with Appendix 703.2.A.13. 
 
            15.  Subject to paragraph 16, the duty-free quantity of sugar 
            and syrup goods under paragraph 14(c) shall not exceed the 
            following ceilings: 
              
                 (a)  for each of the first six marketing years, 25,000 
                      metric tons raw value; 
 
                 (b)  for the seventh marketing year, 150,000 metric tons 
                      raw value; and 
 
                 (c)  for each of the eighth through 14th marketing years, 
                      110 percent of the previous marketing year's ceiling. 
 
            16.  Beginning with the seventh marketing year, paragraph 15 
            shall not apply where, pursuant to paragraph 13, the Parties 
            have determined the exporting Party to be a net surplus 
            producer: 
 
                 (a)  for any two consecutive marketing years beginning 
                      after the date of entry into force of this Agreement; 
 
                 (b)  for the previous and current marketing years; or 
 
                 (c)  in the current marketing year and projected it to be 
                      a net surplus producer in the next marketing year, 
                      unless subsequently the Parties determine that, 
                      contrary to the projection, the exporting Party was 
                      not a net surplus producer for that year. 
 
            17.  Mexico shall, beginning no later than six years after the 
            date of entry into force of this Agreement, apply on a most- 
 
                                   Annex 703.2                              
 
            favored-nation (MFN) basis a tariff rate quota for sugar and 
            syrup goods consisting of rates of customs duties no less than 
            the lesser of the corresponding: 
 
                 (a)  MFN rates of the United States in effect on the date 
                      that Mexico commences to apply the tariff rate quota; 
                      and 
 
                 (b)  prevailing MFN rates of the United States. 
 
            18.  When Mexico applies a tariff rate quota under paragraph 
            17, it shall not apply on a sugar or syrup good that is a 
            qualifying good a rate of customs duty higher than the rate of 
            customs duty applied by the United States on such good. 
 
            19.   Each Party shall determine the quantity of a sugar or 
            syrup good that is a qualifying good based on the actual weight 
            of such good, converted as appropriate to raw value, without 
            regard to the good's packaging or presentation. 
 
            20.  If the United States eliminates its tariff rate quota for 
            sugar and syrup goods imported from non-Parties, at such time 
            the United States shall accord to such goods that are 
            qualifying goods the better of the treatment, as determined by 
            Mexico, of: 
 
                 (a)  the treatment provided for in paragraphs 14 through 
                      16; or 
 
                 (b)  the MFN treatment granted by the United States to 
                      non-Parties. 
 
            21.   Except as provided in paragraph 22, Mexico shall not be 
            required to apply the applicable rate of customs duty provided 
            in this Annex or in its Schedule to Annex 302.2 to a sugar or 
            syrup good, or sugar-containing product, that is a qualifying 
            good where the United States has granted or will grant benefits 
            under any re-export program or any like program in connection 
            with the export of the good.  The United States shall notify 
            Mexico in writing within two days, excluding weekends, of any 
            export to Mexico of such a good for which the benefits of any 
            re-export program or any other like program have been or will 
            be claimed by the exporter. 
 
            22.  Notwithstanding any other provision of this Section: 
 
                 (a)  the United States shall accord duty-free treatment to 
                      imports of 
 
                                  Annex 703.2                               
 
                      (i)   raw sugar that is a qualifying good that will 
                            be refined in the territory of the United 
                            States and re-exported to the territory of 
                            Mexico, and 
 
                      (ii)  refined sugar that is a qualifying good that 
                            has been refined from raw sugar produced in, 
                            and exported from, the territory of the United 
                            States; 
 
                 (b)  Mexico shall accord duty-free treatment to imports of 
 
                      (i)   raw sugar that is a qualifying good that will 
                            be refined in the territory of Mexico and re- 
                            exported to the territory of the United 
                            States, and 
 
                      (ii)  refined sugar that is a qualifying good that 
                            has been refined from raw sugar produced in, 
                            and exported from, the territory of Mexico; 
                            and 
 
                 (c)  imports qualifying for duty-free treatment pursuant 
                      to subparagraphs (a) and (b) shall not be subject to, 
                      or counted under, any tariff rate quota. 
 
            Agricultural Grading and Marketing Standards 
 
            23.  Where a Party adopts or maintains a measure respecting the 
            classification, grading or marketing of a domestic agricultural 
            good, it shall accord treatment to a like qualifying good 
            destined for processing no less favorable than it accords under 
            the measure to the domestic good destined for processing. The 
            importing Party may adopt or maintain measures to ensure that 
            such imported good is processed. 
 
            24.  Paragraph 23 shall be without prejudice to the rights of 
            either Party under the GATT or under Chapter Three (National 
            Treatment and Market Access) regarding measures respecting the 
            classification, grading or marketing of an agricultural good, 
            whether or not destined for processing. 
 
            25.  The Parties hereby establish a Working Group, comprising 
            representatives of Mexico and the United States, which shall 
            meet annually or as otherwise agreed.  The Working Group shall 
            review, in coordination with the Committee on Standards-Related 
            Measures established under Article 913 (Committee on Standards- 
            Related Measures), the operation of agricultural grade and 
 
                               Annex 703.2                                  
 
            quality standards as they affect trade between the Parties, and 
            shall resolve issues that may arise regarding the operation of 
            the standards.  This Working Group shall report to the 
            Committee on Agricultural Trade established under Article 706. 
 
            Definitions 
 
            26.  For purposes of this Section: 
 
            marketing year means a 12-month period beginning October 1;  
 
            net production surplus means the quantity by which a Party's 
            domestic production of sugar exceeds its total consumption of 
            sugar during a marketing year, determined in accordance with 
            this Section; 
 
            net surplus producer means a Party that has a net production 
            surplus; 
 
            plantation white sugar means crystalline sugar that has not 
            been refined and is intended for human consumption without 
            further processing or refining; 
 
            qualifying good means an originating good that is an 
            agricultural good, except that in determining whether such good 
            is an originating good, operations performed in or materials 
            obtained from Canada shall be considered as if they were 
            performed in or obtained from a non-Party; 
 
            raw value means the equivalent of a quantity of sugar in terms 
            of raw sugar testing 96 degrees by the polariscope, determined 
            as follows: 
 
                 (a)  the raw value of plantation white sugar equals the 
                      number of kilograms thereof multiplied by 1.03; 
 
                 (b)  the raw value of liquid sugar and invert sugar equals 
                      the number of kilograms of the total sugars thereof 
                      multiplied by 1.07; and 
 
                 (c)  the raw value of other imported sugar and syrup goods 
                      equals the number of kilograms thereof multiplied by 
                      the greater of 0.93, or 1.07 less 0.0175 for each 
                      degree of polarization under 100 degrees (and 
                      fractions of a degree in proportion); 
 
                                      Annex 703.2                           

            sugar means raw or refined sugar derived directly or indirectly 
            from sugar cane or sugar beets, including liquid refined sugar; 
            and 
 
            sugar-containing product means a good containing sugar; and 
 
            wholly obtained in the territory of means harvested in the 
            territory of. 
 
 
                             Section B - Canada and Mexico 
 
            1.   This Section applies only as between Canada and Mexico. 
 
            Customs Duties and Quantitative Restrictions  
 
            2.   With respect to agricultural goods, Article 309(1) and (2) 
            (Import and Export Restrictions) applies only to qualifying 
            goods. 
 
            3.   Except with respect to a good set out in Sections A or B 
            of Annex 703.3., where a Party applies an over-quota tariff 
            rate to a qualifying good pursuant to a tariff rate quota set 
            out in its Schedule to Annex 302.2 or increases a customs duty 
            for a sugar or syrup good to a rate that exceeds the rate of 
            customs duty for that good set out in its GATT Schedule of 
            Tariff Concessions as of July 1, 1991, the other Party waives 
            its rights under the GATT with respect to the application of 
            that rate of customs duty. 
 
            4.   Notwithstanding Article 302(2) (Tariff Elimination), where 
            an agreement resulting from agricultural multilateral trade 
            negotiations under the GATT enters into force with respect to a 
            Party pursuant to which it has agreed to convert a prohibition 
            or restriction on its importation of an agricultural good into 
            a tariff rate quota or a customs duty, that Party may not apply 
            to such good that is a qualifying good an over-quota tariff 
            rate that is higher than the lower of the over-quota tariff 
            rate in: 
 
                 (a)  its Schedule to Annex 302.2, and 
 
                 (b)  that agreement, 
 
            and paragraph 3 shall no longer apply to the other Party with 
            respect to that good.  
 
                                  Annex 703.2                               
 
            5.   Each Party may count the in-quota quantity under a tariff 
            rate quota applied to a qualifying good in accordance with its 
            Schedule to Annex 302.2 toward the satisfaction of commitments 
            regarding an in-quota quantity of a tariff rate quota or level 
            of access under a restriction on the importation of that good: 
 
                 (a)  that have been agreed under the GATT, including as 
                      set out in its GATT Schedule of Tariff Concessions; 
                      or  
 
                 (b)  undertaken by the Party as a result of any agreement 
                      resulting from agricultural multilateral trade 
                      negotiations under the GATT. 
 
            6.   Subject to this Section and for purposes of this Section, 
            Canada and Mexico incorporate their respective rights and 
            obligations with respect to agricultural goods under the GATT 
            and agreements negotiated under the GATT, including their 
            rights and obligations under Article XI of the GATT. 
 
            7.   Notwithstanding paragraph 6 and Article 309: 
 
                 (a)  the rights and obligations of the Parties under 
                      Article XI:2(c)(i) of the GATT and those rights as 
                      incorporated by Article 309 shall apply with respect 
                      to trade in agricultural goods only to the dairy, 
                      poultry and egg goods set out in Appendix 703.2.B.7; 
                      and  
 
                 (b)  with respect to such dairy, poultry and egg goods 
                      that are qualifying goods, either Party may adopt or 
                      maintain a prohibition or restriction or a customs 
                      duty on the importation of such good consistent with 
                      its rights and obligations under the GATT. 
 
            8.   Without prejudice to Chapter Eight (Emergency Action), 
            neither Party may seek a voluntary restraint agreement from the 
            other Party with respect to the exportation of a qualifying 
            good. 
 
            9.   Notwithstanding Chapter Four (Rules of Origin), Mexico may 
            treat a good provided for in Mexican tariff item 1806.10.01 
            (except those with a sugar content less than 90 percent) or 
            2106.90.05 (except those that contain added flavoring matter) 
            that is exported from the territory of Canada as non- 
            originating for purposes of applying a rate of customs duty to 
            that good, if any material provided for in HS subheading 
 
                                  Annex 703.2                               
 
            1701.99 used in the production of such good is not a qualifying 
            good. 
 
            10.  Notwithstanding Chapter Four (Rules of Origin), Canada may 
            treat a good provided for in Canadian tariff item 1806.10.10 or 
            2106.90.21 that is exported from the territory of Mexico as 
            non-originating for purposes of applying a rate of customs duty 
            to that good, if any material provided for in HS subheading 
            1701.99 used in the production of such good is not a qualifying 
            good. 
 
            Trade in Sugar 
 
            11.  Mexico shall apply a rate of customs duty equal to its 
            most-favored-nation over-quota tariff rate to a sugar or syrup 
            that is a qualifying good. 
 
            12.  Canada may apply a rate of customs duty on a sugar or 
            syrup good that is a qualifying good equal to the rate of 
            customs duty applied by Mexico pursuant to paragraph 11. 
 
            Agricultural Grading and Marketing Standards 
 
            13.  The Parties hereby establish a Working Group, comprising 
            representatives of Canada and Mexico, which shall meet annually 
            or as otherwise agreed.  The Working Group shall review, in 
            coordination with the Committee on Standards-Related Measures 
            established under Article 913 (Committee on Standards-Related 
            Measures), the operation of agricultural grade and quality 
            standards as they affect trade between the Parties, and shall 
            resolve issues that may arise regarding the operation of the 
            standards.  This Working Group shall report to the Committee on 
            Agricultural Trade established under Article 706. 
 
            Definitions 
 
            14.  For purposes of this Section: 
 
            qualifying good means an originating good that is an 
            agricultural good except that, in determining whether such good 
            is an originating good, operations performed in or material 
            obtained from the United States shall be considered as if they 
            were performed in or obtained from a non-Party. 
 
 
                                Section C - Definitions 
 
            For purposes of this Annex: 
 
                                Annex 703.2                                 

            sugar or syrup good means: 
 
                 (a)  for imports into Canada, a good provided for in any 
                      of the current tariff items 1701.11.10, 1701.11.20, 
                      1701.11.30, 1701.11.40, 1701.11.50, 1701.12.00, 
                      1701.91.00, 1701.99.00, 1702.90.31, 1702.90.32, 
                      1702.90.33, 1702.90.34, 1702.90.35, 1702.90.36, 
                      1702.90.37, 1702.90.38, 1702.90.40, 1806.10.10  and 
                      2106.90.21 of the Canadian Tariff Schedule;  
 
                 (b)  for imports into Mexico, a good provided for in any 
                      of the current tariff items  1701.11.01, 1701.11.99, 
                      1701.12.01, 1701.12.99, 1701.91 (except those that 
                      contain added flavoring matter), 1701.99.01, 
                      1701.99.99, 1702.90.01, 1806.10.01 (except those with 
                      a sugar content less than 90 percent) and 2106.90.05 
                      (except those that contain flavoring matter) of the  
                      General Import Duty Act ("Ley del Impuesto General de 
                      Importaci n"); and 
 
                 (c)  for imports into the United States, a good provided 
                      for in any of the current tariff items 1701.11.03, 
                      1701.12.02, 1701.91.22, 1701.99.02, 1702.90.32, 
                      1806.10.42, and 2106.90.12 of the U.S. Harmonized 
                      Tariff Schedule, without regard to the quantity 
                      imported. 
 
                                   Appendix 703.2.A.4 
 
                          Goods not Subject to Annex 703.2.A.4 
 
 
                                   Schedule of Mexico 
 
            Mexican Tariff Item                Description 
 
            2009.11.01                         (Orange juice, frozen) 
            2009.19.01                         (Orange juice, with a grade 
                                               of concentration not greater 
                                               than 1.5 (single-strength 
                                               orange juice)) 
 
            (For purposes of reference only, descriptions are provided next 
            to the corresponding tariff provision). 
 
                              Annex 703.2                                   
 
                             Schedule of the United States 
 
            U.S. Tariff Item                   Description 
 
            2009.11.00                         (Orange juice, frozen) 
            2009.19.20                         (Orange juice, not frozen, 
                                               not concentrated (single- 
                                               strength orange juice)) 
 
            (For purposes of reference only, descriptions are provided next 
            to the corresponding tariff provision). 
 
 
                                  Appendix 703.2.A.13 
 
                 Determination and Adjustment of Net Production Surplus 
 
            1.   For purposes of Section A(14)(c), where the Parties 
            project a net production surplus for a Party for the next 
            marketing year, the projected surplus shall be: 
 
                 (a)  increased by the amount, if any, by which the actual 
                      net production surplus exceeds the projected net 
                      production surplus in the most recent marketing year 
                      for which the Parties projected a net production 
                      surplus for that Party; or 
 
                 (b)  decreased by the amount, if any, by which the 
                      projected net production surplus exceeds the actual 
                      net production surplus in the most recent marketing 
                      year for which the Parties projected a net production 
                      surplus for that Party; 
 
            as further demonstrated by the following formulas: 
 
                                ANPS = (PPy - CPy) + CF 
 
                 where:     ANPS  =  adjusted net production surplus 
                            PP  =    projected domestic production of sugar 
                            CP  =    projected total consumption of sugar 
                            CF  =    correction factor 
                            y   =    next marketing year, 
 
            and 
 
                           CF = (PAys - CAys) - (PPys - CPys) 
 
                 where:     PA  =    actual domestic production of sugar 
 
                           Annex 703.2                                      
 
                            CA  =    actual total consumption of sugar 
                            ys  =    most recent previous marketing year 
                                     for which the Parties projected a net 
                                     production surplus for that Party. 
 
            2.   For purposes only of paragraph 1, neither the projected 
            net production surplus (PPys -CPys) nor the actual net 
            production surplus (PAys - CAys) in the most recent marketing 
            year for which the Parties projected a net production surplus 
            for that Party may be considered to: 
 
                 (a)  exceed the quantity, if any, in Section A(15) 
                      applicable to that year; or 
 
                 (b)  be lower than the greater of 
 
                      (i)   7,258 metric tons raw value, or 
 
                      (ii)  the quantity in paragraph 14(b) of Section A 
                            applicable to that year. 
 
            3.   In appropriate circumstances, a Party shall consider 
            adjustments to projections of its net production surplus when: 
 
                                     Fc  greater than  (B + 10 %) 
                 where 
 
                            F   is the percentage change in stocks from the 
                                beginning to the end of a marketing year z, 
                                expressed as a positive percentage 
 
                            c   is current marketing year 
 
                            F   is calculated in accordance with the 
                                following formula: 
 
 
                                            Sb -  Se    
                                     F =                 x  100    
                                                Sb      
 
 
                            Sb  beginning stocks in marketing year z 
 
                            Se  ending stocks in marketing year z 
 
                            B   the average annual percentage change in 
                                stocks over the previous 5 marketing years, 
 
                                 Annex 703.2                                

                                calculated in accordance with the following 
                                formula: 
 
                            N   previous marketing years, ranging from 1 
                                (first preceding year) to 5 (fifth 
                                preceding year). 
 
            4.   For purposes of determining net production surplus or 
                 projected net production surplus: 
 
                 (a)  domestic production means all sugar and syrup goods 
                      derived from sugar cane or sugar beets grown in a 
                      Party's territory; and 
 
                 (b)  total consumption means all sugar and syrup goods 
                      consumed directly, or indirectly in the form of a 
                      good containing such goods, in the territory of a 
                      Party. 
 
            5.   Each Party shall permit representatives from the other 
                 Party to observe and comment on its statistics on 
                 production, consumption, trade and stocks and on the 
                 methodology it uses to prepare such statistics. 
 
            6.   Statistics on production, consumption, trade and stocks 
                 shall be provided by: 
 
                 (a)  the Secretar a de Agricultura y Recursos Hidr ulicos, 
                      the Secretar a de Comercio y Fomento Industrial, and 
                      the Secretar a de Hacienda y Cr dito P blico; and 
 
                 (b)  the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA). 
 
                                   Annex 703.2                              
   
                                   Appendix 703.2.B.7 
 
                              Dairy, Poultry and Egg Goods 
 
 
                                   Schedule of Canada 
 
            For Canada, a dairy, poultry or egg good is a good provided for 
            in one of the following Canadian tariff items: 
 
            Canadian Tariff Items         Description 
 
            0105.11.20               Broilers of the species Gallus 
                                     domesticus for domestic production, 
                                     weighing not more than 185 g. 
            0105.91.00               Live fowls of the species Gallus 
                                     domesticus, weighing 185g. or more. 
            0105.99.00               Live ducks, geese, turkeys and guinea 
                                     fowls, weighing 185g. or more. 
            0207.10.00               Meat of poultry of heading No. 01.05, 
                                     not cut in pieces, fresh or chilled. 
            0207.21.00               Meat of fowls of the species Gallus 
                                     domesticus, not cut in pieces, frozen. 
            0207.22.00               Meat of turkeys, not cut in pieces, 
                                     frozen. 
            0207.39.00               Cut meat and edible offal (including 
                                     livers other than fatty livers of 
                                     geese or ducks), of the poultry of 
                                     heading No. 01.05, fresh or chilled. 
            0207.41.00               Cut meat and edible offal, other than 
                                     livers, of fowls of the species Gallus 
                                     domesticus, frozen. 
            0207.42.00               Cut meat and edible offal, other than 
                                     livers, of turkeys, frozen. 
            0207.50.00               Livers of poultry of heading No. 
                                     01.05, frozen. 
            0209.00.20               Poultry fat (not rendered), fresh, 
                                     chilled, frozen, salted, in brine, 
                                     dried or smoked. 
            0210.90.10               Meat of poultry, salted, in brine, 
                                     dried or smoked. 
            0401.10.00               Milk and cream, not concentrated nor 
                                     containing added sugar or other 
                                     sweetening matter of a fat content, by 
                                     weight, not exceeding 1 percent. 
            0401.20.00               Milk and cream, not concentrated nor 
                                     containing added sugar or other 
                                     sweetening matter of a fat content, by 
 
                              Annex 703.2                                   
 
                                     weight, exceeding 1 percent but not 
                                     exceeding 6 percent. 
            0401.30.00               Milk and cream, not concentrated nor 
                                     containing added sugar or other 
                                     sweetening matter, of a fat content, 
                                     by weight, exceeding 6 percent. 
            0402.10.00               Milk and cream, concentrated or 
                                     containing added sugar or other 
                                     sweetening matter, in powder, granules 
                                     or other solid forms, of a fat 
                                     content, by weight, not exceeding 1.5 
                                     percent. 
            0402.21.10               Milk, concentrated, not containing 
                                     added sugar or other sweetening 
                                     matter, in powder, granules or other 
                                     solid forms, of a fat content, by 
                                     weight, exceeding 1.5 percent. 
            0402.21.20               Cream, concentrated, not containing 
                                     added sugar or other sweetening 
                                     matter, in powder, granules or other 
                                     solid forms, of a fat content, by 
                                     weight, exceeding 1.5 percent. 
            0402.29.10               Milk, whether or not concentrated, 
                                     containing added sugar or other 
                                     sweetening matter, in powder, granules 
                                     or other solid forms, of a fat 
                                     content, by weight, exceeding 1.5 
                                     percent. 
            0402.29.20               Cream, whether or not concentrated, 
                                     containing added sugar or other 
                                     sweetening matter, in powder, granules 
                                     or other solid forms, of a fat 
                                     content, by weight, exceeding 1.5 
                                     percent. 
            0402.91.00               Milk and cream, concentrated, not 
                                     containing added sugar or other 
                                     sweetening matter, not in powder, 
                                     granules or other solid forms. 
            0402.99.00               Milk and cream, whether or not 
                                     concentrated, containing added sugar 
                                     or other sweetening matter, not in 
                                     powder, granules or other solid forms. 
            0403.10.00               Yogurt. 
            0403.90.10               Powdered buttermilk. 
            0403.90.90               Liquid buttermilk, curdled milk and 
                                     cream, kephir and other fermented or 
                                     acidified milk and cream, whether or 
                                     not concentrated or containing added 
 
                                   Annex 703.2                              
 
                                     sugar or other sweetening matter or 
                                     flavored or containing added fruit, 
                                     nuts or cocoa. 
            0404.10.10               Whey powder and modified whey powder, 
                                     whether or not concentrated or 
                                     containing added sugar or other 
                                     sweetening matter. 
            0404.10.90               Whey and modified whey, not in powder, 
                                     whether or not concentrated or 
                                     containing added sugar or other 
                                     sweetening matter. 
            0404.90.00               Products consisting of natural milk 
                                     constituents, whether or not 
                                     containing added sugar or other 
                                     sweetening matter, not elsewhere 
                                     specified or included. 
            0405.00.10               Butter. 
            0405.00.90               Fats and oils derived from milk, other 
                                     than butter. 
            0406.10.00               Fresh (unripened or uncured) cheese, 
                                     including whey cheese, and curd. 
            0406.20.10               Cheddar cheese and cheddar types of 
                                     cheese, grated or powdered. 
            0406.20.90               Grated or powdered cheese of all 
                                     kinds, other than cheddar and cheddar 
                                     types. 
            0406.30.00               Processed cheese, not grated or 
                                     powdered. 
            0406.40.00               Blue-veined cheese. 
            0406.90.10               Cheddar cheese and cheddar types of 
                                     cheese, not grated, powdered or 
                                     processed. 
            0406.90.90               Other cheese not elsewhere specified 
                                     or included. 
            0407.00.00               Birds' eggs, in shell, fresh, 
                                     preserved or cooked. 
            0408.11.00               Dried egg yolks, whether or not 
                                     containing added sugar or other 
                                     sweetening matter. 
            0408.19.00               Egg yolks, fresh, cooked by steaming 
                                     or by boiling in water, moulded, 
                                     frozen or otherwise preserved, whether 
                                     or not containing added sugar or other 
                                     sweetening matter. 
            0408.91.00               Bird's eggs, not in shell, dried, 
                                     whether or not containing added sugar 
                                     or other sweetening matter. 
 
                                Annex 703.2                                 
 
            0408.99.00               Birds' eggs, not in shell, fresh, 
                                     cooked by steaming or by boiling in 
                                     water, moulded, frozen or otherwise 
                                     preserved, whether or not containing 
                                     added sugar or other sweetening 
                                     matter. 
            1601.00.11               Sausages and similar products of meat, 
                                     meat offal or blood of poultry of 
                                     heading No. 01.05 or food preparation 
                                     based on these products, in airtight 
                                     containers. 
            1602.10.10               Homogenized preparations of chicken or 
                                     turkey. 
            1602.20.20               Poultry liver paste. 
            1602.31.10               Prepared meals of prepared or 
                                     preserved turkey meat, meat offal or 
                                     blood, other than sausages and similar 
                                     products. 
            1602.31.91               Prepared or preserved turkey meat, 
                                     meat offal or blood, other than 
                                     sausages and similar products, and 
                                     other than prepared meals, in air- 
                                     tight containers. 
            1602.31.99               Prepared or preserved turkey meat, 
                                     meat offal of blood, other than 
                                     sausages and similar products, other 
                                     than prepared meals, not in air-tight 
                                     containers. 
            1602.39.10               Prepared meals of prepared or 
                                     preserved meat, meat offal or blood of 
                                     poultry of heading No. 01.05 other 
                                     than turkey (i.e., Gallus domesticus, 
                                     ducks, geese or guinea fowls), other 
                                     than sausages and similar products. 
            1602.39.91               Prepared or preserved meat, meat offal 
                                     or blood of poultry of heading No. 
                                     01.05 other than turkey (i.e., Gallus 
                                     domesticus, ducks, geese or guinea 
                                     fowls), other than sausages and 
                                     similar products, and other than 
                                     prepared meals, in air-tight 
                                     containers. 
 
                                 Annex 703.2                                
 
            1602.39.99               Prepared or preserved meat, meat offal 
                                     or blood, of poultry of heading No. 
                                     01.05 other than turkey (i.e., Gallus 
                                     domesticus, ducks, geese or guinea 
                                     fowls), other than sausages and 
                                     similar products, other than prepared 
                                     meals, not in air-tight containers. 
            1901.90.31               Food preparations of goods of headings 
                                     Nos. 04.01 to 04.04, not containing 
                                     cocoa powder or containing cocoa 
                                     powder in a proportion by weight of 
                                     less than 10 percent, not elsewhere 
                                     specified or included, containing more 
                                     than 10 percent on a dry weight basis 
                                     of milk solids. 
            2105.00.00               Ice cream and other edible ice, 
                                     whether or not containing cocoa. 
            2106.90.70               Egg preparations not elsewhere 
                                     specified or included. 
            2309.90.31               Complete feeds and feed supplements, 
                                     including concentrates, containing 
                                     over 50 percent by weight in the dry 
                                     state of milk solids. 
            3501.10.00               Casein. 
            3501.90.00               Caseinates and other casein 
                                     derivatives; casein glues. 
            3502.10.10               Egg albumin, dried, evaporated, 
                                     desiccated or powdered. 
            3502.10.90               Other egg albumin. 
 
            (For purposes of reference only, descriptions are provided next 
            to the corresponding tariff provision.) 
 
 
                                   Schedule of Mexico 
 
            For Mexico, a dairy, poultry or egg good is a good provided for 
            in one of the following tariff items: 
 
 
 
            Mexican Tariff Items          Description 
 
            0105.11.01               Day old chickens without being fed 
                                     during its transportation 
            0105.91.01               Game cocks 
            0105.91.99               Other 
            0105.99.99               Other poultry 
 
                               Annex 703.2                                  
 
            0207.10.01               Turkey 
            0207.10.99               Other 
            0207.21.01               Chickens 
            0207.22.01               Turkey 
            0207.39.01               Paste of poultry or turkey (not 
                                     provided for in heading 16.01 or 
                                     16.02) 
            0207.39.02               Turkey 
            0207.39.99               Other 
            0207.41.01               Paste (not provided for in heading 
                                     16.01 or 16.02) 
            0207.41.99               Other 
            0207.42.01               Paste (not provided for in heading 
                                     16.01 or 16.02) 
            0207.42.99               Other 
            0207.50.01               Poultry livers, frozen 
            0209.00.01               Chicken or turkey fat 
            0210.90.99               Other 
            0401.10.01               In hermetic containers milk not 
                                     concentrated 
            0401.10.99               Other 
            0401.20.01               In hermetic containers 
            0401.20.99               Other 
            0401.30.01               In hermetic containers 
            0401.30.99               Other 
            0402.10.01               Milk powder 
            0402.10.99               Other 
            0402.21.01               Milk powder 
            0402.21.99               Other 
            0402.29.99               Other 
            0402.91.01               Evaporated milk 
            0402.91.99               Other 
            0402.99.01               Condensed milk 
            0402.99.99               Other 
            0403.10.01               Yogurt 
            0403.90.01               Powdered milk whey with a protein 
                                     content less than or equal to 12 
                                     percent 
            0403.90.99               Other butter whey 
            0404.10.01               Whey, concentrated, sweetened 
            0404.90.99               Other 
            0405.00.01               Butter, including the immediate 
                                     container, with a weight less than or 
                                     equal to 1 kg 
            0405.00.02               Butter, including the immediate 
                                     container, with a weight over 1 kg 
            0405.00.03               Butiric fat, dehydrated 
            0405.00.99               Other 
 
                                 Annex 703.2                                
 
            0406.10.01               Fresh cheese, including whey cheese 
            0406.20.01               Cheese, grated or powdered 
            0406.30.01               Melted cheese, not grated or powdered 
            0406.30.99               Other, melted cheese 
            0406.40.01               Blue veined cheese 
            0406.90.01               Hard paste cheese called sardo 
            0406.90.02               Hard paste reggi cheese 
            0406.90.03               Soft paste cologne cheese 
            0406.90.04               Hard or semi-hard cheeses with a fat 
                                     content by weight less than or equal 
                                     to 40 percent, and with a water 
                                     content by weight in non-fat matter 
                                     less than or equal to 47 percent 
                                     (called "grana", "parmigiana" or 
                                     "reggiano,") or with a non-fat matter 
                                     content by weight over 47 percent 
                                     without exceeding 72 percent (called 
                                     "danloo, edam, fontan, fontina, fynbo, 
                                     gouda, Avarti, maribo, samsoe, esron, 
                                     italico, kernhem, Saint-Nectaire, 
                                     Saint-Paulin, or talegi l") 
            0406.90.05               Petit suisse cheese 
            0406.90.06               Egmont cheese 
            0406.90.99               Other hard and semihard cheese 
            0407.00.01               Fresh birds eggs, fertile 
            0407.00.02               Frozen eggs 
            0407.00.99               Other poultry eggs 
            0408.11.01               Dried yolks 
            0408.19.99               Other 
            0408.91.01               Frozen or powdered 
            0408.91.99               Other 
            0408.99.01               Frozen or powdered 
            0408.99.99               Other 
            1601.00.01               Sausages or similar products of 
                                     poultry or turkey 
            1602.10.01               Homogenized preparations of poultry or 
                                     turkey 
            1602.20.01               Prepared or preserved liver of poultry 
                                     or turkey 
            1602.31.01               Prepared or preserved turkey meat 
            1602.39.99               Other 
            1901.90.03               Food preparations containing over 10 
                                     percent, by weight, of milk solids 
            2105.00.01               Ice cream and similar products 
            2106.90.09               Egg preparations 
            2309.90.11               Preparations containing over 50 
                                     percent by weight of milk solids 
            3501.10.01               Casein 
            3501.90.01               Casein glues 
            3501.90.02               Caseinates 
            3501.90.99               Other 
            3502.10.01               Egg albumin 
 
                               Annex 703.2                                  
          (For purposes of reference only, descriptions are provided next 
          to the corresponding tariff provision.) 
 
 
                                     Annex 703.3 
 
                               Special Safeguard Goods 
 
 
                     Section A - Canadian Special Safeguard Goods 
 
 
          Canadian Tariff Items         Description 
 
          0603.10.90               Fresh cut flowers and flower buds, other 
                                   than orchids, of a kind suitable for 
                                   bouquets or for ornamental purposes. 
          0702.00.91               Tomatoes, fresh or chilled, not for 
                                   processing, (dutiable period). 
          0703.10.31               Onions or shallots, green, fresh or 
                                   chilled (dutiable period). 
          0707.00.91               Cucumbers or gherkins, fresh or chilled, 
                                   not for processing (dutiable period). 
          0710.80.20               Broccoli and cauliflowers, uncooked or 
                                   cooked by steaming or boiling in water, 
                                   frozen. 
          0811.10.10               Strawberries, uncooked or cooked by 
                                   steaming or boiling in water, frozen, 
                                   whether or not containing added sugar or 
                                   other sweetening matter, for processing. 
          0811.10.90               Strawberries, uncooked or cooked by 
                                   steaming or boiling in water, frozen, 
                                   whether or not containing added sugar or 
                                   other sweetening matter, other than for 
                                   processing. 
          2002.90.00               Tomatoes prepared or preserved otherwise 
                                   than by vinegar or acetic acid, other 
                                   than whole or in pieces. 
 
          (For purposes of reference only, descriptions are provided next 
          to the corresponding tariff provision.) 
 
 
                                  Section B - Mexico 
 
 
          Mexican Tariff Items          Description 
 
          0103.91.99               Live swine, weighing less than 50 
                                   kilograms each, except purebred breeding 
                                   animals and those with pedigree or 
                                   selected breed certificate 
 
                                   Annex 703.3                              
 
          0103.92.99               Live swine, weighing 50 kilograms or 
                                   more each, except purebred breeding 
                                   animals and those with pedigree or 
                                   selected breed certificate 
          0203.11.01               Meat of swine, carcasses and half- 
                                   carcasses, fresh or chilled 
          0203.12.01               Hams, shoulders or cuts thereof, with 
                                   bone in, fresh or chilled 
          0203.19.99               Other swine meat, fresh or chilled 
          0203.21.01               Meat of swine, carcasses and half- 
                                   carcasses, frozen 
          0203.22.01               Hams, shoulders and cuts thereof, with 
                                   bone in, frozen 
          0203.29.99               Other swine meat, frozen 
          0210.11.01               Hams, shoulders and cuts thereof with 
                                   bone in, salted, in brine, dried or 
                                   smoked 
          0210.12.01               Bellies (streaky) and cuts thereof, 
                                   salted, in brine, dried or smoked. 
          0210.19.99               Other swine meat, in brine, dried or 
                                   smoked 
          0710.10.01               Potatoes, uncooked or cooked by steaming 
                                   or boiling in water, frozen 
          0712.10.01               Dried potatoes, whole cut, sliced, 
                                   broken or in powder, but not further 
                                   prepared 
          0808.10.01               Apples, fresh 
          2004.10.01               Potatoes prepared or preserved otherwise 
                                   than by vinegar or acetic acid, frozen 
          2005.20.01               Potatoes prepared or preserved otherwise 
                                   than by vinegar or acetic acid, not 
                                   frozen 
          2101.10.01               Extracts, essences or concentrates, of 
                                   coffee, and preparations with a basis of 
                                   these extracts, essences or concentrates 
                                   or with a basis of coffee. 
 
          (For purposes of reference only, descriptions are provided next 
          to the corresponding tariff provision.) 
 
 
                              Section C - United States 
 
          Note:     "X" indicates that a new tariff item will be 
                    established for this item 
 
          U.S. Tariff Items        Description 
 
                                   Annex 703.3                              
 
          0702.00.XX               Tomatoes (except cherry tomatoes), fresh 
                                   or chilled; if entered during the period 
                                   from November 15 to the last day of the 
                                   following February, inclusive 
          0702.00.XX               Tomatoes (except cherry tomatoes), fresh 
                                   or chilled; if entered during the period 
                                   from March 1 to July 14, inclusive 
          0703.10.XX               Onions and shallots, fresh or chilled 
                                   (not including onion sets and not        
                            ___      
                   ___ 
                                   including pearl onions not over 16 mm in 
                                   diameter) if entered January 1 to April 
                                   30, inclusive 
          0709.30.XX               Eggplants (aubergines), fresh or 
                                   chilled, if entered during the period 
                                   from April 1 to June 30, inclusive 
          0709.60.XX               "Chili" peppers; if entered during the 
                                   period from October 1 to July 31, 
                                   inclusive (current 0709.60.00.20) 
          0709.90.XX               Squash, fresh or chilled; if entered 
                                   during the period from October 1 to the 
                                   following June 30, inclusive 
          0807.10.XX               Watermelons, fresh; if entered during 
                                   the period from May 1 to September 30, 
                                   inclusive. 
 
          (For purposes of reference only, descriptions are provided next 
          to the corresponding tariff provision.) 
 
                   Section B - Sanitary and Phytosanitary Measures 
 
          Article 709:    Scope and Coverage 
 
               In order to establish a framework of rules and disciplines 
          to guide the development, adoption and enforcement of sanitary 
          and phytosanitary measures, this Section applies to any such 
          measure of a Party that may, directly or indirectly, affect trade 
          between the Parties. 
 
 
          Article 710:    Relation to Other Chapters 
 
               Articles 301 (National Treatment) and 309 (Import and Export 
          Restrictions), and the provisions of Article XX(b) of the GATT as 
          incorporated into Article 2101(1) (General Exceptions), do not 
          apply to any sanitary or phytosanitary measure. 
 
 
          Article 711:    Reliance on Non-Governmental Entities 
 
               Each Party shall ensure that any non-governmental entity on 
          which it relies in applying a sanitary or phytosanitary measure 
          acts in a manner consistent with this Section. 
 
 
          Article 712:    Basic Rights and Obligations 
 
          Right to Take Sanitary and Phytosanitary Measures 
 
          1.   Each Party may, in accordance with this Section, adopt, 
          maintain or apply any sanitary or phytosanitary measure necessary 
          for the protection of human, animal or plant life or health in 
          its territory, including a measure more stringent than an 
          international standard, guideline or recommendation. 
 
          Right to Establish Level of Protection 
 
          2.   Notwithstanding any other provision of this Section, each 
          Party may, in protecting human, animal or plant life or health, 
          establish its appropriate levels of protection in accordance with 
          Article 715. 
 
          Scientific Principles 
 
          3.   Each Party shall ensure that any sanitary or phytosanitary 
          measure that it adopts, maintains or applies is: 
 
               (a)  based on scientific principles, taking into account 
                    relevant factors including, where appropriate, 
                    different geographic conditions; 
 
               (b)  not maintained where there is no longer a scientific 
                    basis for it; and 
 
               (c)  based on a risk assessment, as appropriate to the 
                    circumstances. 
 
          Non-Discriminatory Treatment 
 
          4.   Each Party shall ensure that a sanitary or phytosanitary 
          measure that it adopts, maintains or applies does not arbitrarily 
          or unjustifiably discriminate between its goods and like goods of 
          another Party, or between goods of another Party and like goods 
          of any other country, where identical or similar conditions 
          prevail. 
 
          Unnecessary Obstacles 
 
          5.   Each Party shall ensure that any sanitary or phytosanitary 
          measure that it adopts, maintains or applies is applied only to 
          the extent necessary to achieve its appropriate level of 
          protection, taking into account technical and economic 
          feasibility. 
 
          Disguised Restrictions 
 
          6.    No Party may adopt, maintain or apply any sanitary or 
          phytosanitary measure with a view to, or with the effect of, 
          creating a disguised restriction on trade between the Parties. 
 
 
          Article 713:    International Standards and Standardizing 
                          Organizations 
 
          1.   Without reducing the level of protection of human, animal or 
          plant life or health, each Party shall use, as a basis for its 
          sanitary and phytosanitary measures, relevant international 
          standards, guidelines or recommendations with the objective, 
          among others, of making its sanitary and phytosanitary measures 
          equivalent or, where appropriate, identical to those of the other 
          Parties. 
 
          2.   A Party's sanitary or phytosanitary measure that conforms to 
          a relevant international standard, guideline or recommendation 
          shall be presumed to be consistent with Article 712. A measure 
          that results in a level of sanitary or phytosanitary protection 
          different from that which would be achieved by a measure based on 
          a relevant international standard, guideline or recommendation 
          shall not for that reason alone be presumed to be inconsistent 
          with this Section. 
 
          3.   Nothing in Paragraph 1 shall be construed to prevent a Party 
          from adopting, maintaining or applying, in accordance with the 
          other provisions of this Section, a sanitary or phytosanitary 
          measure that is more stringent than the relevant international 
          standard, guideline or recommendation. 
 
          4.   Where a Party has reason to believe that a sanitary or 
          phytosanitary measure of another Party is adversely affecting or 
          may adversely affect its exports and the measure is not based on 
          a relevant international standard, guideline or recommendation, 
          it may request, and the other Party shall provide in writing, the 
          reasons for the measure. 
 
          5.   Each Party shall, to the greatest extent practicable, 
          participate in relevant international and North American 
          standardizing organizations, including the Codex Alimentarius  
          Commission, the International Office of Epizootics, the 
          International Plant Protection Convention, and the North American 
          Plant Protection Organization, with a view to promoting the 
          development and periodic review of international standards, 
          guidelines and recommendations. 
 
 
          Article 714:    Equivalence 
 
          1.   Without reducing the level of protection of human, animal or 
          plant life or health, the Parties shall, to the greatest extent 
          practicable and in accordance with this Section, pursue 
          equivalence of their respective sanitary and phytosanitary 
          measures. 
 
          2.   Each importing Party: 
 
               (a)  shall treat a sanitary or phytosanitary measure adopted 
                    or maintained by an exporting Party as equivalent to 
                    its own where the exporting Party, in cooperation with 
                    the importing Party, provides to the importing Party 
                    scientific evidence or other information, in accordance 
                    with risk assessment methodologies agreed on by those 
                    Parties, to demonstrate objectively, subject to 
                    subparagraph (b), that the exporting Party's measure 
                    achieves the importing Party's appropriate level of 
                    protection; 
 
               (b)  may, where it has a scientific basis, determine that 
                    the exporting Party's measure does not achieve the 
                    importing Party's appropriate level of protection; and 
            
               (c)  shall provide to the exporting Party, on request, its 
                    reasons in writing for a determination under 
                    subparagraph (b). 
 
          3.   For purposes of establishing equivalence, each exporting 
          Party shall, on the request of an importing Party, take such 
          reasonable measures as may be available to it to facilitate 
          access in its territory for inspection, testing and other 
          relevant procedures. 
 
          4.   Each Party should, in the development of a sanitary or 
          phytosanitary measure, consider relevant actual or proposed 
          sanitary or phytosanitary measures of the other Parties. 
 
 
          Article 715:    Risk Assessment and Appropriate Level of 
                          Protection 
 
          1.   In conducting a risk assessment, each Party shall take into 
          account: 
 
               (a)  relevant risk assessment techniques and methodologies 
                    developed by international or North American 
                    standardizing organizations; 
 
               (b)  relevant scientific evidence; 
 
               (c)  relevant processes and production methods; 
 
               (d)  relevant inspection, sampling and testing methods; 
 
               (e)  the prevalence of relevant diseases or pests, including 
                    the existence of pest-free or disease-free areas or 
                    areas of low pest or disease prevalence; 
 
               (f)  relevant ecological and other environmental conditions; 
                    and 
 
               (g)  relevant treatments, such as quarantines. 
 
          2.   Further to paragraph 1, each Party shall, in establishing 
          its appropriate level of protection regarding the risk associated 
          with the introduction, establishment or spread of an animal or 
          plant pest or disease, and in assessing the risk, also take into 
          account the following economic factors, where relevant: 
 
               (a)  loss of production or sales that may result from the 
                    pest or disease; 
 
               (b)  costs of control or eradication of the pest or disease 
                    in its territory; and 
 
               (c)  the relative cost-effectiveness of alternative 
                    approaches to limiting risks. 
 
 
          3.   Each Party, in establishing its appropriate level of 
          protection: 
 
               (a)  should take into account the objective of minimizing 
                    negative trade effects; and 
 
               (b)  shall, with the objective of achieving consistency in 
                    such levels, avoid arbitrary or unjustifiable 
                    distinctions in such levels in different circumstances, 
                    where such distinctions result in arbitrary or 
                    unjustifiable discrimination against a good of another 
                    Party or constitute a disguised restriction on trade 
                    between the Parties. 
 
          4.   Notwithstanding paragraphs (1) through (3) and Article 
          712(3)(c), where a Party conducting a risk assessment determines 
          that available relevant scientific evidence or other information 
          is insufficient to complete the assessment, it may adopt a 
          provisional sanitary or phytosanitary measure on the basis of 
          available relevant information, including from international or 
          North American standardizing organizations and from sanitary or 
          phytosanitary measures of other Parties.  The Party shall, within 
          a reasonable period after information sufficient to complete the 
          assessment is presented to it, complete its assessment, review 
          and, where appropriate, revise the provisional measure in the 
          light of the assessment. 
 
          5.   Where a Party is able to achieve its appropriate level of 
          protection through the phased application of a sanitary or 
          phytosanitary measure, it may, on the request of another Party 
          and in accordance with this Section, allow for such a phased 
          application, or grant specified exceptions for limited periods 
          from the measure, taking into account the requesting Party's 
          export interests. 
 
 
          Article 716:    Adaptation to Regional Conditions 
 
          1.   Each Party shall adapt any of its sanitary or phytosanitary 
          measures relating to the introduction, establishment or spread of 
          an animal or plant pest or disease, to the sanitary or 
          phytosanitary characteristics of the area where a good subject to 
          such a measure is produced and the area in its territory to which 
          the good is destined, taking into account any relevant 
          conditions, including those relating to transportation and 
          handling, between those areas.  In assessing such characteristics 
          of an area, including whether an area is, and is likely to 
          remain, a pest-free or disease-free area or an area of low pest 
          or disease prevalence, each Party shall take into account, among 
          other factors: 
 
               (a)  the prevalence of relevant pests or diseases in that 
                    area; 
 
               (b)  the existence of eradication or control programs in 
                    that area; and 
 
               (c)  any relevant international standard, guideline or 
                    recommendation. 
 
          2.   Further to paragraph 1, each Party shall, in determining 
          whether an area is a pest-free or disease-free area or an area of 
          low pest or disease prevalence, base its determination on factors 
          such as geography, ecosystems, epidemiological surveillance and 
          the effectiveness of sanitary or phytosanitary controls in that 
          area. 
 
          3.   Each importing Party shall recognize that an area in the 
          territory of the exporting Party is, and is likely to remain, a 
          pest-free or disease-free area or an area of low pest or disease 
          prevalence, where the exporting Party provides to the importing 
          Party scientific evidence or other information sufficient to so 
          demonstrate to the satisfaction of the importing Party.  For this 
          purpose, each exporting Party shall provide reasonable access in 
          its territory to the importing Party for inspection, testing and 
          other relevant procedures. 
 
          4.   Each Party may, in accordance with this Section: 
 
               (a)  adopt, maintain or apply a different risk assessment 
                    procedure for a pest-free or disease-free area than for 
                    an area of low pest or disease prevalence, or 
 
               (b)  make a different final determination for the 
                    disposition of a good produced in a pest-free or 
                    disease-free area than for a good produced in an area 
                    of low pest or disease prevalence, 
 
          taking into account any relevant conditions, including those 
          relating to transportation and handling. 
 
          5.   Each Party shall, in adopting, maintaining or applying a 
          sanitary or phytosanitary measure relating to the introduction, 
          establishment or spread of an animal or plant pest or disease, 
          accord a good produced in a pest-free or disease-free area in the 
          territory of another Party no less favorable treatment than it 
          accords a good produced in a pest-free or disease-free area, in 
          another country, that poses the same level of risk.  The Party 
          shall use equivalent risk assessment techniques to evaluate 
          relevant conditions and controls in the pest-free or disease-free 
          area and in the area surrounding that area and take into account 
          any relevant conditions, including those relating to 
          transportation and handling. 
 
          6.   Each importing Party shall pursue an agreement with an 
          exporting Party, on request, on specific requirements the 
          fulfillment of which allows a good produced in an area of low 
          pest or disease prevalence in the territory of an exporting Party 
          to be imported into the territory of the importing Party and 
          achieves the importing Party's appropriate level of protection. 
 
 
          Article 717:    Control, Inspection and Approval Procedures 
 
          1.   Each Party, with respect to any control or inspection 
          procedure that it conducts: 
 
               (a)  shall initiate and complete the procedure as 
                    expeditiously as possible and in no less favorable 
                    manner for a good of another Party than for a like good 
                    of the Party or of any other country; 
 
               (b)  shall publish the normal processing period for the 
                    procedure or communicate the anticipated processing 
                    period to the applicant on request; 
 
               (c)  shall ensure that the competent body 
 
                    (i)   on receipt of an application, promptly examines 
                          the completeness of the documentation and 
                          informs the applicant in a precise and complete 
                          manner of any deficiency,  
 
                    (ii)  transmits to the applicant as soon as possible 
                          the results of the procedure in a form that is 
                          precise and complete so that the applicant may 
                          take any necessary corrective action, 
 
                    (iii) where the application is deficient, proceeds as 
                          far as practicable with the procedure if the 
                          applicant so requests, and  
 
                    (iv)  informs the applicant, on request, of the status 
                          of the application and the reasons for any 
                          delay; 
 
               (d)  shall limit the information the applicant is required 
                    to supply to that necessary for conducting the 
                    procedure; 
 
               (e)  shall accord confidential or proprietary information 
                    arising from, or supplied in connection with, the 
                    procedure conducted for a good of another Party 
 
                    (i)   treatment no less favorable than for a good of 
                          the Party, and  
 
                    (ii)  in any event, treatment that protects the 
                          applicant's legitimate commercial interests, to 
                          the extent provided under the Party's law; 
 
               (f)  shall limit any requirement regarding individual 
                    specimens or samples of a good to that which is 
                    reasonable and necessary; 
 
               (g)  should not impose a fee for conducting the procedure 
                    that is higher for a good of another Party than is 
                    equitable in relation to any such fee it imposes for 
                    its like goods or for like goods of any other country, 
                    taking into account communication, transportation and 
                    other related costs; 
 
               (h)  should use criteria for selecting the location of 
                    facilities at which the procedure is conducted that do 
                    not cause unnecessary inconvenience to an applicant or 
                    its agent; 
 
               (i)  shall provide a mechanism to review complaints 
                    concerning the operation of the procedure and to take 
                    corrective action when a complaint is justified; 
 
               (j)  should use criteria for selecting samples of goods that 
                    do not cause unnecessary inconvenience to an applicant 
                    or its agent; and 
 
               (k)  shall limit the procedure, for a good modified 
                    subsequent to a determination that the good fulfills 
                    the requirements of the applicable sanitary or 
                    phytosanitary measure, to that necessary to determine 
                    that the good continues to fulfill the requirements of 
                    that measure. 
 
          2.   Each Party shall apply, with such modifications as may be 
          necessary, paragraphs 1(a) through (i) to its approval 
          procedures. 
 
          3.   Where an importing Party's sanitary or phytosanitary measure 
          requires the conduct of a control or inspection procedure at the 
          level of production, an exporting Party shall, on the request of 
          the importing Party, take such reasonable measures as may be 
          available to it to facilitate access in its territory and to 
          provide assistance necessary to facilitate the conduct of the 
          importing Party's control or inspection procedure. 
 
          4.   A Party maintaining an approval procedure may require its 
          approval for the use of an additive, or its establishment of a 
          tolerance for a contaminant, in a food, beverage or feedstuff, 
          under that procedure prior to granting access to its domestic 
          market for a food, beverage or feedstuff containing that additive 
          or contaminant.  Where such Party so requires, it shall consider 
          using a relevant international standard, guideline or 
          recommendation as the basis for granting access until it 
          completes the procedure. 
 
 
          Article 718:    Notification, Publication and Provision of 
                          Information 
 
          1.   Further to Articles 1802 (Publication) and 1803 
          (Notification and Provision of Information), each Party proposing 
          to adopt or modify a sanitary or phytosanitary measure of general 
          application at the federal level shall: 
 
               (a)  at least 60 days prior to the adoption or modification 
                    of the measure, other than a law, publish a notice and 
                    notify in writing the other Parties of the proposed 
                    measure and provide to the other Parties and publish 
                    the full text of the proposed measure, in such a manner 
                    as to enable interested persons to become acquainted 
                    with the proposed measure; 
 
               (b)  identify in the notice and notification the good to 
                    which the measure would apply, and provide a brief 
                    description of the objective and reasons for the 
                    measure; 
 
               (c)  provide a copy of the proposed measure to any Party or 
                    interested person that so requests and, wherever 
                    possible, identify any provision that deviates in 
                    substance from relevant international standards, 
                    guidelines or recommendations; and 
 
               (d)  without discrimination, allow other Parties and 
                    interested persons to make comments in writing and 
                    shall, on request, discuss the comments and take the 
                    comments and the results of the discussions into 
                    account. 
 
          2.   Each Party shall seek, through appropriate measures, to 
          ensure, with respect to a sanitary or phytosanitary measure of a 
          state or provincial government: 
 
               (a)  that, at an early appropriate stage, a notice and 
                    notification of the type referred to in paragraphs 1(a) 
                    and (b) are made prior to their adoption; and 
 
               (b)  observance of paragraphs 1(c) and (d). 
 
          3.   Where a Party considers it necessary to address an urgent 
          problem relating to sanitary or phytosanitary protection, it may 
          omit any step set out in paragraph 1 or 2, provided that, on 
          adoption of a sanitary or phytosanitary measure, it shall: 
 
               (a)  immediately provide to the other Parties a notification 
                    of the type referred to in paragraph 1(b), including a 
                    brief description of the urgent problem; 
 
               (b)  provide a copy of the measure to any Party or 
                    interested person that so requests; and 
 
               (c)  without discrimination, allow other Parties and 
                    interested persons to make comments in writing and 
                    shall, on request, discuss the comments and take the 
                    comments and the results of the discussions into 
                    account. 
 
          4.   Each Party shall, except where necessary to address an 
          urgent problem referred to in paragraph 3, allow a reasonable 
          period between the publication of a sanitary or phytosanitary 
          measure of general application and the date that it becomes 
          effective to allow time for interested persons to adapt to the 
          measure. 
 
          5.   Each Party shall designate a government authority 
          responsible for the implementation at the federal level of the 
          notification provisions of this Article, and shall notify the 
          other Parties thereof.  Where a Party designates two or more 
          government authorities for this purpose, it shall provide to the 
          other Parties complete and unambiguous information on the scope 
          of responsibility of each such authority. 
 
          6.   Where an importing Party denies entry into its territory of 
          a good of another Party because it does not comply with a 
          sanitary or phytosanitary measure, the importing Party shall 
          provide a written explanation to the exporting Party, on request, 
          that identifies the applicable measure and the reasons that the 
          good is not in compliance. 
 
 
          Article 719:    Inquiry Points 
 
          1.   Each Party shall ensure that there is one inquiry point that 
          is able to answer all reasonable inquiries from other Parties and 
          interested persons, and to provide relevant documents, regarding: 
 
               (a)  any sanitary or phytosanitary measure of general 
                    application, including any control or inspection 
                    procedure or approval procedure, proposed, adopted or 
                    maintained in its territory at the federal, state or 
                    provincial government level; 
 
               (b)  the Party's risk assessment procedures and factors it 
                    considers in conducting the assessment and in 
                    establishing its appropriate levels of protection; 
 
               (c)  the membership and participation of the Party, or its 
                    relevant federal, state or provincial government 
                    authorities in international and regional sanitary and 
                    phytosanitary organizations and systems, and in 
                    bilateral and multilateral arrangements within the 
                    scope of this Section, and the provisions of those 
                    systems and arrangements; and 
 
               (d)  the location of notices published pursuant to this 
                    Section or where such information can be obtained. 
 
          2.   Each Party shall ensure that where copies of documents are 
          requested by another Party or by interested persons in accordance 
          with this Section, they are supplied at the same price, apart 
          from the actual cost of delivery, as the price for domestic 
          purchase. 
 
 
          Article 720:    Technical Cooperation 
 
          1.   Each Party shall, on the request of another Party, 
          facilitate the provision of technical advice, information and 
          assistance, on mutually agreed terms and conditions, to enhance 
          that Party's sanitary and phytosanitary measures and related 
          activities, including research, processing technologies, 
          infrastructure and the establishment of national regulatory 
          bodies.   Such assistance may include credits, donations and 
          grants for the acquisition of technical expertise, training and 
          equipment that will facilitate the Party's adjustment to and 
          compliance with a Party's sanitary or phytosanitary measure. 
 
          2.   Each Party shall, on the request of another Party: 
 
               (a)  provide to that Party information on its technical 
                    cooperation programs regarding sanitary or 
                    phytosanitary measures relating to specific areas of 
                    interest; and 
 
               (b)  consult with the other Party during the development of, 
                    or prior to the adoption or change in the application 
                    of, any sanitary or phytosanitary measure. 
 
 
          Article 721:    Limitations on the Provision of Information 
 
          Nothing in this Section shall be construed to require a Party to: 
 
               (a)  communicate, publish texts or provide particulars or 
                    copies of documents other than in an official language 
                    of the Party; or 
 
               (b)  furnish any information the disclosure of which would 
                    impede law enforcement or otherwise be contrary to the 
                    public interest or would prejudice the legitimate 
                    commercial interests of particular enterprises. 
 
 
          Article 722:    Committee on Sanitary and Phytosanitary Measures 
 
          1.   The Parties hereby establish a Committee on Sanitary and 
          Phytosanitary Measures, comprising representatives of each Party 
          who have responsibility for sanitary and phytosanitary matters. 
 
          2.   The Committee should facilitate: 
 
               (a)  the enhancement of food safety and improvement of 
                    sanitary and phytosanitary conditions in the 
                    territories of the Parties; 
 
               (b)  activities of the Parties pursuant to Articles 713 and 
                    714; 
 
               (c)  technical cooperation between the Parties, including 
                    cooperation in the development, application and 
                    enforcement of sanitary or phytosanitary measures; and 
 
               (d)  consultations on specific matters relating to sanitary 
                    or phytosanitary measures. 
 
          3.   The Committee: 
 
               (a)  shall, to the extent possible, in carrying out its 
                    functions, seek the assistance of relevant 
                    international and North American standardizing 
                    organizations to obtain available scientific and 
                    technical advice and minimize duplication of effort; 
 
               (b)  may draw on such experts and expert bodies as it 
                    considers appropriate; 
 
               (c)  shall report annually to the Commission on the 
                    implementation of this Section; 
 
               (d)  shall meet on the request of any Party and, unless the 
                    Parties otherwise agree, at least once each year; and 
 
               (e)  may, as it considers appropriate, establish and 
                    determine the scope and mandate of working groups. 
 
 
          Article 723:    Technical Consultations 
 
          1.   A Party may request consultations with another Party on any 
          matter covered by this Section. 
 
          2.   Each Party should use the good offices of relevant 
          international and North American standardizing organizations, 
          including those referred to in Article 713(5), for advice and 
          assistance on sanitary and phytosanitary matters within their 
          respective mandates. 
 
          3.   Where a Party requests consultations regarding the 
          application of this Section to a Party's sanitary or 
          phytosanitary measure, and so notifies the Committee, the 
          Committee may facilitate the consultations, if it does not 
          consider the matter itself, by referring the matter for 
          non-binding technical advice or recommendations to a working 
          group, including an ad hoc working group, or to another forum.    
                         
__ ___ 
 
          4.   The Committee should consider any matter referred to it 
          under paragraph 3 as expeditiously as possible, particularly 
          regarding perishable goods, and promptly forward to the Parties 
          any technical advice or recommendations that it develops or 
          receives concerning the matter.  The Parties involved shall 
          provide a written response to the Committee concerning the 
          technical advice or recommendations within such time as the 
          Committee may request. 
 
          5.   Where the involved Parties have had recourse to 
          consultations facilitated by the Committee under paragraph 3, the 
          consultations shall, on the agreement of the Parties involved, 
          constitute consultations under Article 2006 (Consultations). 
 
          6.   The Parties confirm that a Party asserting that a sanitary 
          or phytosanitary measure of another Party is inconsistent with 
          this Section shall have the burden of establishing the 
          inconsistency. 
 
          Article 724:    Definitions 
 
          For purposes of this Section: 
 
          animal includes fish and wild fauna; 
 
          appropriate level of protection means the level of protection of 
          human, animal or plant life or health in the territory of a Party 
          that the Party considers appropriate;  
 
          approval procedure means any registration, notification or other 
          mandatory administrative procedure for: 
 
               (a)  approving the use of an additive for a stated purpose 
                    or under stated conditions; or 
 
               (b)  establishing a tolerance for a stated purpose or under 
                    stated conditions for a contaminant, 
 
          in a food, beverage or feedstuff prior to permitting the use of 
          the additive or the marketing of a food, beverage or feedstuff 
          containing the additive or contaminant; 
 
          area means a country, part of a country or all or parts of 
          several countries; 
 
          area of low pest or disease prevalence means an area in which a 
          specific pest or disease occurs at low levels; 
 
          contaminant includes pesticide and veterinary drug residues and 
          extraneous matter; 
 
          control or inspection procedure means any procedure used, 
          directly or indirectly, to determine that a sanitary or 
          phytosanitary measure is fulfilled, including sampling, testing, 
          inspection, evaluation, verification, monitoring, auditing, 
          assurance of conformity, accreditation, registration, 
          certification or other procedure involving the physical 
          examination of a good, of the packaging of a good, or of the 
          equipment or facilities directly related to production, marketing 
          or use of a good, but does not mean an approval procedure; 
 
          international standard, guideline or recommendation means a 
          standard, guideline or recommendation: 
 
               (a)  regarding food safety, adopted by the Codex 
                    Alimentarius Commission, including one regarding 
                    decomposition elaborated by the Codex Committee on Fish 
                    and Fishery Products, food additives, contaminants, 
                    hygienic practice, and methods of analysis and 
                    sampling; 
 
               (b)  regarding animal health and zoonoses, developed under 
                    the auspices of the International Office of Epizootics; 
 
               (c)  regarding plant health, developed under the auspices of 
                    the Secretariat of the International Plant Protection 
                    Convention in cooperation with the North American Plant 
                    Protection Organization; or 
 
               (d)  established by or developed under any other 
                    international organization agreed on by the Parties; 
 
          pest includes a weed; 
 
          pest-free or disease-free area means an area in which a specific 
          pest or disease does not occur; 
 
          plant includes wild flora; 
 
          risk assessment means an evaluation of: 
 
               (a)  the potential for the introduction, establishment or 
                    spread of a pest or disease and associated biological 
                    and economic consequences; or 
 
               (b)  the potential for adverse effects on human or animal 
                    life or health arising from the presence of an 
                    additive, contaminant, toxin or disease-causing 
                    organism in a food, beverage or feedstuff; 
 
          sanitary or phytosanitary measure means a measure that a Party 
          adopts, maintains or applies to: 
 
               (a)  protect animal or plant life or health in its territory 
                    from risks arising from the introduction, establishment 
                    or spread of a pest or disease, 
 
               (b)  protect human or animal life or health in its territory 
                    from risks arising from the presence of an additive, 
                    contaminant, toxin or disease-causing organism in a 
                    food, beverage or feedstuff, 
 
               (c)  protect human life or health in its territory from 
                    risks arising from a disease-causing organism or pest 
                    carried by an animal or plant, or a product thereof, or 
 
               (d)  prevent or limit other damage in its territory arising 
                    from the introduction, establishment or spread of a 
                    pest, 
 
          including end product criteria; a product-related processing or 
          production method; a testing, inspection, certification or 
          approval procedure; a relevant statistical method; a sampling 
          procedure; a method of risk assessment; a packaging and labelling 
          requirement directly related to food safety; and a quarantine 
          treatment, such as a relevant requirement associated with the 
          transportation of animals or plants or with material necessary 
          for their survival during transportation; and 
 
          scientific basis means a reason based on data or information 
          derived using scientific methods. 

Title:Emergency Action -- Chapter Eight
Author: White House
Document-Date: 29 Sept 1993
Content-Type: text/plain; CHARSET=US-ASCII
Content-Length:30583

                                     Chapter Eight 
 
                                    Emergency Action 
 
 
            Article 801:   Bilateral Actions 
 
            1.   Subject to paragraphs 2 through 4 and Annex 801.1, and 
            during the transition period only, if a good originating in the 
            territory of a Party, as a result of the reduction or 
            elimination of a duty provided for in this Agreement, is being 
            imported into the territory of another Party in such increased 
            quantities, in absolute terms, and under such conditions that 
            the imports of the good from that Party alone constitute a 
            substantial cause of serious injury, or threat thereof, to a 
            domestic industry producing a like or directly competitive 
            good, the Party into whose territory the good is being imported 
            may, to the minimum extent necessary to remedy or prevent the 
            injury: 
 
                 (a)  suspend the further reduction of any rate of duty 
                      provided for under this Agreement on the good;  
 
                 (b)  increase the rate of duty on the good to a level not 
                      to exceed the lesser of 
 
                      (i)  the most-favored-nation (MFN) applied rate of 
                           duty in effect at the time the action is taken, 
                           and 
 
                      (ii) the MFN applied rate of duty in effect on the 
                           day immediately preceding the date of entry into 
                           force of this Agreement; or 
 
                 (c)  in the case of a duty applied to a good on a seasonal 
                      basis, increase the rate of duty to a level not to 
                      exceed the MFN applied rate of duty that was in 
                      effect on the good for the corresponding season 
                      immediately preceding the date of entry into force of 
                      this Agreement. 
 
            2.   The following conditions and limitations shall apply to a 
            proceeding that may result in emergency action under paragraph 
            1: 
 
                 (a)  a Party shall, without delay, deliver to any Party 
                      that may be affected written notice of, and a request 
                      for consultations regarding, the institution of a 
                      proceeding that could result in emergency action 
                      against a good originating in the territory of a 
                      Party; 
 
                 (b)  any such action shall be initiated no later than one 
                      year after the date of institution of the proceeding; 
 
                 (c)  no action may be maintained 
 
                      (i)  for a period exceeding three years, except where 
                           the good against which the action is taken is 
                           provided for in the items in staging category C+ 
                           of the Schedule to Annex 302.2 (Tariff 
                           Elimination) of the Party taking the action and 
                           that Party determines that the affected industry 
                           has undertaken adjustment and requires an 
                           extension of the period of relief, in which case 
                           the period of relief may be extended for one 
                           year provided that the duty applied during the 
                           initial period of relief is substantially 
                           reduced at the beginning of the extension 
                           period, or 
 
                      (ii) beyond the expiration of the transition period, 
                           except with the consent of the Party against 
                           whose good the action is taken; 
 
                 (d)  no action may be taken by a Party against any 
                      particular good originating in the territory of 
                      another Party more than once during the transition 
                      period; and 
 
                 (e)  on the termination of the action, the rate of duty 
                      shall be the rate that, according to the Party's 
                      Schedule to Annex 302.2 for the staged elimination of 
                      the tariff, would have been in effect one year after 
                      the initiation of the action, and beginning  January 
                      1 of the year following the termination of the 
                      action, at the option of the Party that has taken the 
                      action 
 
                      (i)  the rate of duty shall conform to the applicable 
                           rate set out in its  Schedule to Annex 302.2, or 
 
                      (ii) the tariff shall be eliminated in equal annual 
                           stages ending on the date set out in its 
                           Schedule to Annex 302.2 for the elimination of 
                           the tariff.  
 
            3.   A Party may take a bilateral emergency action after the 
            expiration of the transition period to deal with cases of 
            serious injury, or threat thereof, to a domestic industry 
            arising from the operation of this Agreement only with the 
            consent of the Party against whose good the action would be 
            taken. 
 
             4.   The Party taking an action under this Article shall 
            provide to the Party against whose good the action is taken 
            mutually agreed trade liberalizing compensation in the form of 
            concessions having substantially equivalent trade effects or 
            equivalent to the value of the additional duties expected to 
            result from the action.  If the Parties concerned are unable to 
            agree on compensation, the Party against whose good the action 
            is taken may take tariff action having trade effects 
            substantially equivalent to the action taken under this 
            Article.  The Party taking the tariff action shall apply the 
            action only for the minimum period necessary to achieve the 
            substantially equivalent effects. 
 
            5.   This Article does not apply to emergency actions 
            respecting goods covered by Annex 300-B (Textile and Apparel 
            Goods). 
 
 
            Article 802:   Global Actions 
 
            1.   Each Party retains its rights and obligations under 
            Article XIX of the GATT or any safeguard agreement pursuant 
            thereto except those regarding compensation or retaliation and 
            exclusion from an action to the extent that such rights or 
            obligations are inconsistent with this Article.  Any Party 
            taking an emergency action under Article XIX or any such 
            agreement shall exclude imports of a good from each other Party 
            from the action unless: 
 
                 (a)  imports from a Party, considered individually, 
                      account for a substantial share of total imports; and 
 
                 (b)  imports from a Party, considered individually, or in 
                      exceptional circumstances imports from Parties 
                      considered collectively, contribute importantly to 
                      the serious injury, or threat thereof, caused by 
                      imports. 
 
            2.   In determining whether: 
 
                 (a)  imports from a Party, considered individually, 
                      account for a substantial share of total imports, 
                      those imports normally shall not be considered to 
                      account for a substantial share of total imports if 
                      that Party is not among the top five suppliers of the 
                      good subject to the proceeding, measured in terms of 
                      import share during the most recent three-year 
                      period; and 
 
                 (b)  imports from a Party or Parties contribute 
                      importantly to the serious injury, or threat thereof, 
                      the competent investigating authority shall consider 
                      such factors as the change in the import share of 
                      each Party, and the level and change in the level of 
                      imports of each Party.  In this regard, imports from 
                      a Party normally shall not be deemed to contribute 
                      importantly to serious injury, or the threat thereof, 
                      if the growth rate of imports from a Party during the 
                      period in which the injurious surge in imports 
                      occurred is appreciably lower than the growth rate of 
                      total imports from all sources over the same period.  
 
            3.   A Party taking such action, from which a good from another 
            Party or Parties is initially excluded pursuant to paragraph 1, 
            shall have the right subsequently to include that good from the 
            other Party or Parties in the action in the event that the 
            competent investigating authority determines that a surge in 
            imports of such good from the other Party or Parties undermines 
            the effectiveness of the action. 
 
            4.   A Party shall, without delay, deliver written notice to 
            the other Parties of the institution of a proceeding that may 
            result in emergency action under paragraph 1 or 3. 
 
            5.   No Party may impose restrictions on a good in an action 
            under paragraph 1 or 3: 
 
                 (a)  without delivery of prior written notice to the 
                      Commission, and without adequate opportunity for 
                      consultation with the Party or Parties against whose 
                      good the action is proposed to be taken, as far in 
                      advance of taking the action as practicable; and 
 
                 (b)  that would have the effect of reducing imports of 
                      such good from a Party below the trend of imports of 
                      the good from that Party over a recent representative 
                      base period with allowance for reasonable growth. 
 
            6.   The Party taking an action pursuant to this Article shall 
            provide to the Party or Parties against whose good the action 
            is taken mutually agreed trade liberalizing compensation in the 
            form of concessions having substantially equivalent trade 
            effects or equivalent to the value of the additional duties 
            expected to result from the action.  If the Parties concerned 
            are unable to agree on compensation, the Party against whose 
            good the action is taken may take action having trade effects 
            substantially equivalent to the action taken under paragraph 1 
            or 3. 
 
            Article 803:   Administration of Emergency Action Proceedings 
 
            1.   Each Party shall ensure the consistent, impartial and 
            reasonable administration of its laws, regulations, decisions 
            and rulings governing all emergency action proceedings. 
 
            2.   Each Party shall entrust determinations of serious injury, 
            or threat thereof, in emergency action proceedings to a 
            competent investigating authority, subject to review by 
            judicial or administrative tribunals, to the extent provided by 
            domestic law.  Negative injury determinations shall not be 
            subject to modification, except by such review.  The competent 
            investigating authority empowered under domestic law to conduct 
            such proceedings should be provided with the necessary 
            resources to enable it to fulfill its duties. 
 
            3.   Each Party shall adopt or maintain equitable, timely, 
            transparent and effective procedures for emergency action 
            proceedings, in accordance with the requirements set out in 
            Annex 803.3. 
 
            4.   This Article does not apply to emergency actions taken 
            under Annex 300-B (Textile and Apparel Goods). 
 
 
            Article 804:   Dispute Settlement in Emergency Action Matters 
 
                 No Party may request the establishment of an arbitral 
            panel under Article 2008 (Request for an Arbitral Panel) 
            regarding any proposed emergency action. 
 
 
            Article 805:   Definitions 
 
            For purposes of this Chapter: 
 
            competent investigating authority means the "competent 
            investigating authority" of a Party as defined in Annex 805; 
 
            contribute importantly means an important cause, but not 
            necessarily the most important cause; 
 
            critical circumstances means circumstances where delay would 
            cause damage that would be difficult to repair; 
 
            domestic industry means the producers as a whole of the like or 
            directly competitive good operating in the territory of a 
            Party; 
 
            emergency action does not include any emergency action pursuant 
            to a proceeding instituted prior to January 1, 1994; 
 
            good originating in the territory of a Party means an 
            originating good, except that in determining the Party in whose 
            territory that good originates, the relevant rules of Annex 
            302.2 shall apply; 
 
            serious injury means a significant overall impairment of a 
            domestic industry; 
 
            surge means a significant increase in imports over the trend 
            for a recent representative base period; 
 
            threat of serious injury means serious injury that, on the 
            basis of facts and not merely on allegation, conjecture or 
            remote possibility, is clearly imminent; and 
 
            transition period means the 10-year period beginning on January 
            1, 1994, except where the good against which the action is 
            taken is provided for in the items in staging category C+ of 
            the Schedule to Annex 302.2 of the Party taking the action, in 
            which case the transition period shall be the period of staged 
            tariff elimination for that good. 
  
 
                                      Annex 801.1 
 
                                   Bilateral Actions 
 
 
            1.   Notwithstanding Article 801, bilateral emergency actions 
            between Canada and the United States on goods originating in 
            the territory of either Party, other than goods covered by 
            Annex 300-B (Textile and Apparel Goods), shall be governed in 
            accordance with the terms of Article 1101 of the Canada -       
            United States Free Trade Agreement, which is hereby            
            incorporated into and made a part of this Agreement for such 
            purpose. 
 
            2.   For such purposes, "good originating in the territory of 
            one Party" means "good originating in the territory of a Party" 
            as defined in Article 805. 
 
                                  Annex 803.3 
 
                     Administration of Emergency Action Proceedings 
 
 
            Institution of a Proceeding

            1.   An emergency action proceeding may be instituted by a 
            petition or complaint by entities specified in domestic law.  
            The entity filing the petition or complaint shall demonstrate 
            that it is representative of the domestic industry producing a 
            good like or directly competitive with the imported good.  
 
            2.   A Party may institute a proceeding on its own motion or 
            request the competent investigating authority to conduct a 
            proceeding. 
 
            Contents of a Petition or Complaint             
 
            3.   Where the basis for an investigation is a petition or 
            complaint filed by an entity representative of a domestic 
            industry, the petitioning entity shall, in its petition or 
            complaint, provide the following information to the extent that 
            such information is publicly available from governmental or 
            other sources, or best estimates and the basis therefor if such 
            information is not available: 
 
                 (a)  product description - the name and description of the 
                      imported good concerned, the tariff subheading under 
                      which that good is classified, its current tariff 
                      treatment and the name and description of the like or 
                      directly competitive domestic good concerned;  
 
                 (b)  representativeness - 
 
                      (i)  the names and addresses of the entities filing 
                           the petition or complaint, and the locations of 
                           the establishments in which they produce the 
                           domestic good,  
 
                      (ii) the percentage of domestic production of the 
                           like or directly competitive good that such 
                           entities account for and the basis for claiming 
                           that they are representative of an industry, and 
 
                      (iii)     the names and locations of all other 
                                domestic establishments in which the like 
                                or directly competitive good is produced;  
 
                                        Annex 803.3                         

                 (c)  import data - import data for each of the five most 
                      recent full years that form the basis of the claim 
                      that the good concerned is being imported in 
                      increased quantities, either in absolute terms or 
                      relative to domestic production as appropriate; 
 
                 (d)  domestic production data - data on total domestic 
                      production of the like or directly competitive good 
                      for each of the five most recent full years; 
 
                 (e)  data showing injury - quantitative and objective data 
                      indicating the nature and extent of injury to the 
                      concerned industry, such as data showing changes in 
                      the level of sales, prices, production, productivity, 
                      capacity utilization, market share, profits and 
                      losses, and employment; 
 
                 (f)  cause of injury - an enumeration and description of 
                      the alleged causes of the injury, or threat thereof, 
                      and a summary of the basis for the assertion that 
                      increased imports, either actual or relative to 
                      domestic production, of the imported good are causing 
                      or threatening to cause serious injury, supported by 
                      pertinent data; and 
 
                 (g)  criteria for inclusion - quantitative and objective 
                      data indicating the share of imports accounted for by 
                      imports from the territory of each other Party and 
                      the petitioner's views on the extent to which such 
                      imports are contributing importantly to the serious 
                      injury, or threat thereof, caused by imports of that 
                      good. 
              
            4.   Petitions or complaints, except to the extent that they 
            contain confidential business information, shall promptly be 
            made available for public inspection on being filed. 
 
            Notice Requirement   
 
            5.   On instituting an emergency action proceeding, the 
            competent investigating authority shall publish notice of the 
            institution of the proceeding in the official journal of the 
            Party.  The notice shall identify the petitioner or other 
            requester, the imported good that is the subject of the 
            proceeding and its tariff subheading, the nature and timing of 
            the determination to be made, the time and place of the public 
            hearing, dates of deadlines for filing briefs, statements and 
            other documents, the place at which the petition and any other 
 
                                  Annex 803.3                               
 
            documents filed in the course of the proceeding may be 
            inspected, and the name, address and telephone number of the 
            office to be contacted for more information.  
 
            6.   With respect to an emergency action proceeding instituted 
            on the basis of a petition or complaint filed by an entity 
            asserting that it is representative of the domestic industry, 
            the competent investigating authority shall not publish the 
            notice required by paragraph 5 without first assessing 
            carefully that the petition or complaint meets the requirements 
            of paragraph 3, including representativeness. 
 
            Public Hearing 
 
            7.   In the course of each proceeding, the competent 
            investigating authority shall: 
 
                 (a)  hold a public hearing, after providing reasonable 
                      notice, to allow all interested parties, and any 
                      association whose purpose is to represent the 
                      interests of consumers in the territory of the Party 
                      instituting the proceeding, to appear in person or by 
                      counsel, to present evidence and to be heard on the 
                      questions of serious injury, or threat thereof, and 
                      the appropriate remedy; and 
 
                 (b)  provide an opportunity to all interested parties and 
                      any such association appearing at the hearing to 
                      cross-question interested parties making 
                      presentations at that hearing. 
 
            Confidential Information 
 
            8.   The competent investigating authority shall adopt or 
            maintain procedures for the treatment of confidential 
            information, protected under domestic law, that is provided in 
            the course of a proceeding, including a requirement that 
            interested parties and consumer associations providing such 
            information furnish non-confidential written summaries thereof, 
            or where they indicate that the information cannot be 
            summarized, the reasons why a summary cannot be provided. 
 
            Evidence of Injury and Causation             
 
            9.   In conducting its proceeding the competent investigating 
            authority shall gather, to the best of its ability, all 
            relevant information appropriate to the determination it must 
            make.  It shall evaluate all relevant factors of an objective 
 
                                     Annex 803.3                            
 
            and quantifiable nature having a bearing on the situation of 
            that industry, including the rate and amount of the increase in 
            imports of the good concerned, in absolute and relative terms 
            as appropriate, the share of the domestic market taken by 
            increased imports, and changes in the level of sales, 
            production, productivity, capacity utilization, profits and 
            losses, and employment.  In making its determination, the 
            competent investigating authority may also consider other 
            economic factors, such as changes in prices and inventories, 
            and the ability of firms in the industry to generate capital. 
 
            10.  The competent investigating authority shall not make an 
            affirmative injury determination unless its investigation 
            demonstrates, on the basis of objective evidence, the existence 
            of a clear causal link between increased imports of the good 
            concerned and serious injury, or threat thereof.  Where factors 
            other than increased imports are causing injury to the domestic 
            industry at the same time, such injury shall not be attributed 
            to increased imports. 
 
            Deliberation and Report 
 
            11.  Except in critical circumstances and in global actions 
            involving perishable agricultural goods, the competent 
            investigating authority, before making an affirmative 
            determination in an emergency action proceeding, shall allow 
            sufficient time to gather and consider the relevant 
            information, hold a public hearing and provide an opportunity 
            for all interested parties and consumer associations to prepare 
            and submit their views. 
 
            12.  The competent investigating authority shall publish 
            promptly a report, including a summary thereof in the official 
            journal of the Party, setting out its findings and reasoned 
            conclusions on all pertinent issues of law and fact.  The 
            report shall describe the imported good and its tariff item 
            number, the standard applied and the finding made.  The 
            statement of reasons shall set out the basis for the 
            determination, including a description of:   
 
                 (a)  the domestic industry seriously injured or threatened 
                      with serious injury; 
 
                 (b)  information supporting a finding that imports are 
                      increasing, the domestic industry is seriously 
                      injured or threatened with serious injury, and 
                      increasing imports are causing or threatening serious 
                      injury; and 
 
                              Annex 803.3                                   

                 (c)  if provided for by domestic law, any finding or 
                      recommendation regarding the appropriate remedy and 
                      the basis therefor.   
 
            13.  In its report, the competent investigating authority shall 
            not disclose any confidential information provided pursuant to 
            any undertaking concerning confidential information that may 
            have been made in the course of the proceedings. 
 
                                    Annex 805                               
 
                              Country-Specific Definitions 
 
 
            For purposes of this Chapter: 
 
            competent investigating authority means: 
 
                 (a)  in the case of Canada, the Canadian International 
                      Trade Tribunal, or its successor; 
 
                 (b)  in the case of the Mexico, the designated authority 
                      within the Ministry of Trade and Industrial 
                      Development ("Secretar a de Comercio y Fomento 
                      Industrial"), or its successor; and 
 
                 (c)  in the case of the United States, the U.S. 
                      International Trade Commission, or its successor. 

Title:Technical Barriers to Trade -- CHapter Nine
Author: White House
Document-Date: 29 Sept 1993
Content-Type: text/plain; CHARSET=US-ASCII
Content-Length:54694
 
 
                                       PART THREE 
                              TECHNICAL BARRIERS TO TRADE 
 
                                      Chapter Nine 
 
                               Standards-Related Measures 
 
 
            Article 901:   Scope and Coverage 
 
            1.   This Chapter applies to standards-related measures of a 
            Party, other than those covered by Section B of Chapter Seven 
            (Sanitary and Phytosanitary Measures), that may, directly or 
            indirectly, affect trade in goods or services between the 
            Parties, and to measures of the Parties relating to such 
            measures. 
 
            2.   Technical specifications prepared by governmental bodies 
            for production or consumption requirements of such bodies shall 
            be governed exclusively by Chapter Ten (Government 
            Procurement).  
 
 
            Article 902:   Extent of Obligations 
 
            1.   Article 105 (Extent of Obligations) does not apply to this 
            Chapter. 
 
            2.   Each Party shall seek, through appropriate measures, to 
            ensure observance of Articles 904 through 908 by state or 
            provincial governments and by non-governmental standardizing 
            bodies in its territory. 
 
 
            Article 903:   Affirmation of Agreement on Technical Barriers 
                           to Trade and Other Agreements 
 
                 Further to Article 103 (Relation to Other Agreements), the 
            Parties affirm with respect to each other their existing rights 
            and obligations relating to standards-related measures under 
            the GATT Agreement on Technical Barriers to Trade and all other 
            international agreements, including environmental and 
            conservation agreements, to which those Parties are party. 
 
            Article 904:   Basic Rights and Obligations 
 
            Right to Take Standards-Related Measures 
 
            1.   Each Party may, in accordance with this Agreement, adopt, 
            maintain or apply any standards-related measure, including any 
            such measure relating to safety, the protection of human, 
            animal or plant life or health, the environment or consumers, 
            and any measure to ensure its enforcement or implementation.  
            Such measures include those to prohibit the importation of a 
            good of another Party or the provision of a service by a 
            service provider of another Party that fails to comply with the 
            applicable requirements of those measures or to complete the 
            Party's approval procedures. 
 
            Right to Establish Level of Protection 
 
            2.   Notwithstanding any other provision of this Chapter, each 
            Party may, in pursuing its legitimate objectives of safety or 
            the protection of human, animal or plant life or health, the 
            environment or consumers, establish the levels of protection 
            that it considers appropriate in accordance with Article 
            907(2). 
 
            Non-Discriminatory Treatment 
 
            3.   Each Party shall, in respect of its standards-related 
            measures, accord to goods and service providers of another 
            Party: 
 
                 (a)  national treatment in accordance with Article 301 
                      (Market Access) or Article 1202 (Cross-Border Trade 
                      in Services); and 
 
                 (b)  treatment no less favorable than that it accords to 
                      like goods, or in like circumstances to service 
                      providers, of any other country. 
 
            Unnecessary Obstacles 
 
            4.   No Party may prepare, adopt, maintain or apply any 
            standards-related measure with a view to or with the effect of 
            creating an unnecessary obstacle to trade between the Parties.  
            An unnecessary obstacle to trade shall not be deemed to be 
            created where: 
 
                 (a)  the demonstrable purpose of the measure is to achieve 
                      a legitimate objective; and 
 
                 (b)  the measure does not operate to exclude goods of 
                      another Party that meet that legitimate objective. 
 
            Article 905:   Use of International Standards 
 
            1.   Each Party shall use, as a basis for its standards-related 
            measures, relevant international standards or international 
            standards whose completion is imminent, except where such 
            standards would be an ineffective or inappropriate means to 
            fulfill its legitimate objectives, for example because of 
            fundamental climatic, geographical, technological or 
            infrastructural factors, scientific justification or the level 
            of protection that the Party considers appropriate. 
 
            2.   A Party's standards-related measure that conforms to an 
            international standard shall be presumed to be consistent with 
            Article 904(3) and (4). 
 
            3.   Nothing in paragraph 1 shall be construed to prevent a 
            Party, in pursuing its legitimate objectives, from adopting, 
            maintaining or applying any standards-related measure that 
            results in a higher level of protection than would be achieved 
            if the measure were based on the relevant international 
            standard. 
 
 
            Article 906:   Compatibility and Equivalence 
 
            1.   Recognizing the crucial role of standards-related measures 
            in achieving legitimate objectives, the Parties shall, in 
            accordance with this Chapter, work jointly to enhance the level 
            of safety and of protection of human, animal and plant life and 
            health, the environment and consumers. 
 
            2.   Without reducing the level of safety or of protection of 
            human, animal or plant life or health, the environment or 
            consumers, without prejudice to the rights of any Party under 
            this Chapter, and taking into account international 
            standardization activities, the Parties shall, to the greatest 
            extent practicable, make compatible their respective standards- 
            related measures, so as to facilitate trade in a good or 
            service between the Parties. 
 
            3.   Further to Articles 902 and 905, a Party shall, on request 
            of another Party, seek, through appropriate measures, to 
            promote the compatibility of a specific standard or conformity 
            assessment procedure that is maintained in its territory with 
            the standards or conformity assessment procedures maintained in 
            the territory of the other Party.  
 
            4.   Each importing Party shall treat a technical regulation 
            adopted or maintained by an exporting Party as equivalent to 
            its own where the exporting Party, in cooperation with the 
            importing Party, demonstrates to the satisfaction of the 
            importing Party that its technical regulation adequately 
            fulfills the importing Party's legitimate objectives. 
 
            5.   The importing Party shall provide to the exporting Party, 
            on request, its reasons in writing for not treating a technical 
            regulation as equivalent under paragraph 4. 
 
            6.   Each Party shall, wherever possible, accept the results of 
            a conformity assessment procedure conducted in the territory of 
            another Party, provided that it is satisfied that the procedure 
            offers an assurance, equivalent to that provided by a procedure 
            it conducts or a procedure conducted in its territory the 
            results of which it accepts, that the relevant good or service 
            complies with the applicable technical regulation or standard 
            adopted or maintained in the Party's territory. 
 
            7.   Prior to accepting the results of a conformity assessment 
            procedure pursuant to paragraph 6, and to enhance confidence in 
            the continued reliability of each other's conformity assessment 
            results, the Parties may consult on such matters as the 
            technical competence of the conformity assessment bodies 
            involved, including verified compliance with relevant 
            international standards through such means as accreditation.  
 
 
            Article 907:   Assessment of Risk 
 
            1.   A Party may, in pursuing its legitimate objectives, 
            conduct an assessment of risk.  In conducting an assessment, a 
            Party may take into account, among other factors relating to a 
            good or service: 
 
                 (a)  available scientific evidence or technical 
                      information; 
 
                 (b)  intended end uses; 
 
                 (c)  processes or production, operating, inspection, 
                      sampling or testing methods; or  
 
                 (d)  environmental conditions. 
 
            2.   Where pursuant to Article 904(2) a Party establishes a 
            level of protection that it considers appropriate and conducts 
            an assessment of risk, it should avoid arbitrary or 
            unjustifiable distinctions between similar goods or services in 
            the level of protection it considers appropriate, where the 
            distinctions: 
 
                 (a)  result in arbitrary or unjustifiable discrimination 
                      against goods or service providers of another Party; 
 
                 (b)  constitute a disguised restriction on trade between 
                      the Parties; or 
 
                 (c)  discriminate between similar goods or services for 
                      the same use under the same conditions that pose the 
                      same level of risk and provide similar benefits. 
 
            3.   Where a Party conducting an assessment of risk determines 
            that available scientific evidence or other information is 
            insufficient to complete the assessment, it may adopt a 
            provisional technical regulation on the basis of available 
            relevant information.  The Party shall, within a reasonable 
            period after information sufficient to complete the assessment 
            of risk is presented to it, complete its assessment, review 
            and, where appropriate, revise the provisional technical 
            regulation in the light of that assessment. 
 
 
            Article 908:   Conformity Assessment 
 
            1.   The Parties shall, further to Article 906 and recognizing 
            the existence of substantial differences in the structure, 
            organization and operation of conformity assessment procedures 
            in their respective territories, make compatible those 
            procedures to the greatest extent practicable.  
 
            2.   Recognizing that it should be to the mutual advantage of 
            the Parties concerned and except as set out in Annex 908.2, 
            each Party shall accredit, approve, license or otherwise 
            recognize conformity assessment bodies in the territory of 
            another Party on terms no less favorable than those accorded to 
            conformity assessment bodies in its territory. 
 
            3.   Each Party shall, with respect to its conformity 
            assessment procedures: 
 
                 (a)  not adopt or maintain any such procedure that is 
                      stricter, nor apply the procedure more strictly, than 
                      necessary to give it confidence that a good or a 
                      service conforms with an applicable technical 
                      regulation or standard, taking into account the risks 
                      that non-conformity would create; 
 
                 (b)  initiate and complete the procedure as expeditiously 
                      as possible; 
 
                 (c)  in accordance with Article 904(3), undertake 
                      processing of applications in non-discriminatory 
                      order; 
 
                 (d)  publish the normal processing period for each such 
                      procedure or communicate the anticipated processing 
                      period to an applicant on request;   
 
                 (e)  ensure that the competent body 
 
                      (i)  on receipt of an application, promptly examines 
                           the completeness of the documentation and 
                           informs the applicant in a precise and complete 
                           manner of any deficiency,   
 
                      (ii) transmits to the applicant as soon as possible 
                           the results of the conformity assessment 
                           procedure in a form that is precise and complete 
                           so that the applicant may take any necessary 
                           corrective action,  
 
                      (iii)     where the application is deficient, 
                                proceeds as far as practicable with the 
                                procedure where the applicant so requests, 
                                and 
 
                      (iv) informs the applicant, on request, of the status 
                           of the application and the reasons for any 
                           delay;  
 
                 (f)  limit the information the applicant is required to 
                      supply to that necessary to conduct the procedure and 
                      to determine appropriate fees; 
 
                 (g)  accord confidential or proprietary information 
                      arising from, or supplied in connection with, the 
                      conduct of the procedure for a good of another Party 
                      or for a service provided by a person of another 
                      Party  
 
                      (i)  the same treatment as that for a good of the 
                           Party or a service provided by a person of the 
                           Party, and  
 
                      (ii) in any event, treatment that protects an 
                           applicant's legitimate commercial interests to 
                           the extent provided under the Party's law; 
 
                 (h)  ensure that any fee it imposes for conducting the 
                      procedure is no higher for a good of another Party or 
                      a service provider of another Party than is equitable 
                      in relation to any such fee imposed for its like 
                      goods or service providers or for like goods or 
                      service providers of any other country, taking into 
                      account communication, transportation and other 
                      related costs;  
 
                 (i)  ensure that the location of facilities at which a 
                      conformity assessment procedure is conducted does not 
                      cause unnecessary inconvenience to an applicant or 
                      its agent; 
 
                 (j)  limit the procedure, for a good or service modified 
                      subsequent to a determination that the good or 
                      service conforms to the applicable technical 
                      regulation or standard, to that necessary to 
                      determine that the good or service continues to 
                      conform to the technical regulation or standard; and 
 
                 (k)  limit any requirement regarding samples of a good to 
                      that which is reasonable, and ensure that the 
                      selection of samples does not cause unnecessary 
                      inconvenience to an applicant or its agent. 
 
            4.   Each Party shall apply, with such modifications as may be 
            necessary, the relevant provisions of paragraph 3 to its 
            approval procedures. 
 
            5.   Each Party shall, on request of another Party, take such 
            reasonable measures as may be available to it to facilitate 
            access in its territory for conformity assessment activities. 
 
            6.   Each Party shall give sympathetic consideration to a 
            request by another Party to negotiate agreements for the mutual 
            recognition of the results of that other Party's conformity 
            assessment procedures.   
 
 
            Article 909:   Notification, Publication, and Provision of 
                           Information 
 
            1.   Further to Articles 1802 (Publication) and 1803 
            (Notification and Provision of Information), each Party 
            proposing to adopt or modify a technical regulation shall:  
 
                 (a)  at least 60 days prior to the adoption or 
                      modification of the measure, other than a law, 
                      publish a notice and notify in writing the other 
                      Parties of the proposed measure in such a manner as 
                      to enable interested persons to become acquainted 
                      with the proposed measure, except that in the case of 
                      any such measure relating to perishable goods, each 
                      Party shall, to the greatest extent practicable, 
                      publish the notice and provide the notification at 
                      least 30 days prior to the adoption or modification 
                      of the measure, but no later than when notification 
                      is provided to domestic producers; 
 
                 (b)  identify in the notice and notification the good or 
                      service to which the measure would apply, and shall 
                      provide a brief description of the objective of, and 
                      reasons for the measure; 
 
                 (c)  provide a copy of the proposed measure to any Party 
                      or interested person that so requests, and shall, 
                      wherever possible, identify any provision that 
                      deviates in substance from relevant international 
                      standards; and 
 
                 (d)  without discrimination, allow other Parties and 
                      interested persons to make comments in writing and 
                      shall, on request, discuss the comments and take the 
                      comments and the results of the discussions into 
                      account. 
 
            2.   Each Party proposing to adopt or modify a standard or any 
            conformity assessment procedure not otherwise considered to be 
            a technical regulation shall, where an international standard 
            relevant to the proposed measure does not exist or such measure 
            is not substantially the same as an international standard, and 
            where the measure may have a significant effect on the trade of 
            the other Parties: 
 
                 (a)  at an early appropriate stage, publish a notice and 
                      provide a notification of the type required in 
                      paragraph 1(a) and (b); and 
 
                 (b)  observe paragraph 1(c) and (d). 
 
            3.   Each Party shall seek, through appropriate measures, to 
            ensure, with respect to a technical regulation of a state or 
            provincial government other than a local government: 
 
                 (a)  that, at an early appropriate stage, a notice and 
                      notification of the type required under paragraph 
                      1(a) and (b) are made prior to their adoption; and 
 
                 (b)  observance of paragraph 1(c) and (d). 
 
            4.   Where a Party considers it necessary to address an urgent 
            problem relating to safety or to protection of human, animal or 
            plant life or health, the environment or consumers, it may omit 
            any step set out in paragraph 1 or 3, provided that on adoption 
            of a standards-related measure it shall: 
 
                 (a)  immediately provide to the other Parties a 
                      notification of the type required under paragraph 
                      1(b), including a brief description of the urgent 
                      problem; 
 
                 (b)  provide a copy of the measure to any Party or 
                      interested person that so requests; and 
 
                 (c)  without discrimination, allow other Parties and 
                      interested persons to make comments in writing, and 
                      shall, on request, discuss the comments and take the 
                      comments and the results of the discussions into 
                      account. 
 
            5.   Each Party shall, except where necessary to address an 
            urgent problem referred to in paragraph 4, allow a reasonable 
            period between the publication of a standards-related measure 
            and the date that it becomes effective to allow time for 
            interested persons to adapt to the measure. 
 
            6.   Where a Party allows non-governmental persons in its 
            territory to be present during the process of development of 
            standards-related measures, it shall also allow non- 
            governmental persons from the territories of the other Parties 
            to be present. 
 
            7.   Each Party shall notify the other Parties of the 
            development of, amen